Some pictures .
Well , Laith Kubba is an Iraqi exile who has family members in Iraq .
Mr. Kubba is a senior fellow at a think tank called the National Endowment for Democracy .
He is also the president of a group of Iraqi exiles , a group called the Iraq National Group .
He joins us now from London to talk about rebuilding his country .
Mr. Kubba , first of all , your thoughts as you 've watched these scenes of Baghdad , the Saddam Hussein regime falling in the last day ?
It is a huge sigh of relief , because it could have been much worse and Baghdad could have been a war theater with more destruction to property .
And , obviously , there are four million people who could have suffered more .
So , there is a sigh of relief that it is not worse .
But , obviously , there is a great , great concern about the scenes that you 've been showing on television .
Are you talking to family members now in Baghdad and around Iraq ?
And , if you are , how concerned are they about the lawlessness ?
Well , not in the recent three or four days .
There are no phone lines to Baghdad .
In other parts of Iraq , I received with great sadness the killing of one close colleague , Saeed Abu Naji Abhuey -LRB- ph -RRB- in Najaf .
He was not killed by former members of the Baath Party or the security of the army , but by just a local organized group .
So those signs to me are worrying .
People are sensing and feeling the lack of authority or the power vacuum and are testing it .
And the more they test , the more I think they are claiming .
How difficult will it be to sort out who will next hold power in Iraq after this transition period , however long it is , where the U.S. is in charge ?
Well , one needs to break down this process into various elements .
Today , there should be an authority .
And it 's very likely that the U.S. and the British forces are the authority on land .
And there ought to be administration .
And this ought to be primarily by Iraqis .
But when it comes to government , I think we really need to map out step by step how to move from this power vacuum to the day we have elections .
We need to involve the U.N. .
We need to involve all Iraqi forces in the country , outside the country .
But we need to do it quickly , because every day passes by with this vacuum , it 's going to spell trouble .
Well , we know , Mr. Kubba , there are several Iraqi exiles groups competing for influence .
Is one of them going to have an advantage ?
And , particularly , I have in mind the Iraqi National Congress that Mr. Chalabi , who was assisted by U.S. forces in getting back into Iraq ?
I think it 's one thing to gain fame and access to Washington .
It 's totally another to gain legitimacy and functioning grounds inside Iraq .
And I think plans must not be drawn in thin air out in Washington .
It must really be drawn on the ground inside Iraq .
And there are 22 million people there .
It 's not a void .
It 's not a vacuum .
And I think all plans must be anchored there in Iraq in its reality .
So does one group have an advantage over another now ?
There are different groups who have advantage over others in different parts of the country .
Unfortunately , we do not have a national group that can appeal to Iraqis as Iraqis within a credible voice .
This needs to be constructed , maybe through a conference to be held in Baghdad , where representatives from provinces all over Iraq need to participate , as well as political groups .
But we do not have a single group , a single leadership or a single council yet .
We 're talking with Laith Kubba , who is the president of a group of Iraqi exiles .
The group is called the Iraq National Group .
Mr. Kubba , we thank you so much for talking to us from London .
Thank you .
We appreciate it .
Thank you .
Here in Washington , members of the House of Representatives come together to support America 's armed forces .
Up next : a live report on that ceremony and the latest efforts to pass a spending bill to pay for the war .
