Welcome back to CROSSFIRE .
Maybe it 's just me , but I think Michael Jackson , he 's kooky , wacky .
Time now for `` Fireback , '' where our wacky and kooky fans and friends and critics right in .
Don from Denver , Colorado writes , `` Paul , you keep referencing Halliburton selling equipment to Iraq '' -- which I do .
`` I recall , as reported in ` The Wall Street Journal , ' that the transactions were legal .
Is it possible that the equipment allowed Iraq to produce oil for the Oil for Food program authorized by the U.N. ? ''
They were legal because Mr. Cheney 's company used a loophole .
They went through a foreign subsidiary .
But they did enrich Saddam Hussein and his evil , ruthless regime , and they were immoral .
They were wrong .
Dick Cheney should have never profited off of doing business with Saddam Hussein .
I would agree with that .
What does that have to do with the war in Iraq ?
It means Cheney is a hypocrite .
He 's trying to lead us into a war against one of his valued customers .
Well it 's a complete ... -LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- You 're attacking the man .
That 's irrelevant to the argument .
I 'm attacking his business practices .
No , no , you 're attacking -- OK great .
That 's great .
But it has nothing to do whether we should go to war with Iraq or not .
Well yesterday he was a valued customer , today he 's an even villain .
-LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- Right .
So we 're against Dick Cheney , but that does n't have anything to do with Saddam Hussein .
Chad Hensley , from Fairfax , Virginia , writes , `` France , Russia and German have all multi-billion dollar oil deals with Saddam in Iraq .
I wonder why they protest the war with Iraq .
It must be the humanitarian reasons . ''
Well , Chad , that 's what liberals assume .
That Europe is against the war on humanitarian and moral grounds , but the U.S. is for the war because it wants to profit for the oil companies .
It is a weird assumption , do n't you think ?
As you know , I 've never said that .
You have n't .
I do n't believe for a minute that this is a war for oil .
I think it 's unwise , it 's unjust , it 's unwarranted , but I do n't think it 's about oil .
Now , the reason that France , Russia and Germany are against war is because they have democracies .
The people are against it .
It 's called democracy .
Those leaders are reflecting the views of their people .
They hate America , Paul .
