And , as we listened to John King 's report , we can tell you that President Bush has just -- his plane has just landed at Andrews Air Force Base , just close to the Washington area , the president having flown back to the United States from that meeting in Northern Ireland in Belfast with the British prime minister , Tony Blair .
You just heard John reporting about it .
They primarily talked about the war in Iraq , the aftermath of Iraq .
But they also discussed the Middle East and , as well , getting the Northern Ireland peace process started up again .
It has been said that Saddam Hussein ruled Iraq with an iron fist .
I guess you can say in the past tense .
His regime has left behind some disturbing evidence to support those claims .
The abandoned secret police headquarters in Basra is just one example .
ITN 's Bill Neely is with the Royal Marines and he takes us on a tour of Basra 's chamber of horrors .
Saddam Hussein 's Iraq is a state of terror , and this is where it 's planned and perpetrated , the headquarters of his secret police , this one in Basra .
No British soldier has been here yet .
Today , as I walked in , I met Iraqis , none of whom had ever been inside willingly .
What was to follow was a horrific education in terror and torture : in the smoking basement of the bombed building , a warren of cells .
Here , prisoners were tortured .
Yes , of course .
People died .
People died , people in prison without court , without trial .
Any people who Saddam did not like .
Of course .
Of course .
The building is crumbling .
Down we went , further to cells that had no light , little air , cockroaches , filth , and , on the ground , a gas mask and bottles of chemicals .
You can imagine this every day , every month .
So many people come here , but we do n't know about them at all .
These ordinary Iraqis had been terrified to come here , until today , though one student on the left had been here before .
He was one of the prisoners here .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : For how long ?
Eight years .
Eight , nine , eight years .
And his crime for eight years in jail ?
He prayed too much and was seen as a dangerous radical .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : More cells .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : But the Mukhabarat headquarters had more horrors to reveal .
And they tied their hands behind and hung them and hung them for many days .
These men had relatives murdered here .
So desperate are they to tell their story that they began reenacting what they and their brothers and friends have suffered .
The hook in the ceiling is for one purpose only , another hook in a different cell and a different form of torture .
Saddam Hussein controlled Iraq through fear , torture and execution .
And it happened here to tens of thousands of Iraqis that Saddam 's secret police deemed dangerous .
This man cowered for months , crammed with 300 mothers into a huge cell .
Hamid Fatil -LRB- ph -RRB- may look like he 's acting , but he was tortured here , along with his two brothers , who were executed .
This man was here , too , with his brother .
They sentenced him to death .
And they sent him to Baghdad and killed .
He was hanged there , hanged .
There 's a prisoner under the name of Ahmed Adis Aeid -LRB- ph -RRB- .
They kept records of prisoners , these and their fingerprints all that 's left of them , apart from the photographs they took of exactly what they had done .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : If there is an evil center to Saddam Hussein 's regime , then it is surely here and in other places of torture .
And there 's plenty here that we simply can not show you .
In this block , it was men over here , hundreds of them , and women and children here .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : To call all this a chamber of horrors is a cliche .
And this place is beyond cliche .
The hundreds or thousands who died here who were given no trial , no voice , cry out .
On the ground , I found a book called `` The Psychology of Interrogation , '' as if the men who worked here for Saddam needed a handbook .
I was glad of the fresh air and glad to leave , glad I could .
No one knows yet whether the new Iraq will be the kind of place where these children can grow up free of the fear , the horror of torture .
Bill Neely , ITV News , Basra .
Unspeakable .
Journalists killed in the line of duty in Baghdad -- how neutral are reporters in a war supposed to be ?
Our Jeff Greenfield examines that question when we come back .
