-LRB- NEWS BREAK -RRB- Yesterday , there were scenes of jubilation in Baghdad , today , a suicide bombing and firefighters , grim reminders that , as U.S. Central Command put it , Baghdad is still an ugly place .
CNN 's John Irvine has this profile of a city literally teetering on a razor 's edge .
Getting acquainted , very deliberately , the U.S. Marines are trying to strike up a rapport with the people who are now their responsibility .
But there are still problems bringing control to Baghdad , particularly at nighttime .
In the pitch black of a city without power , these soldiers manning a roadblock became nervous .
Stay the -LRB- EXPLETIVE DELETED -RRB- back !
Back up !
When a car fails to stop , it 's the cue for a violent gun battle .
Bullets are sprayed everywhere .
In parts of Baghdad that the Americans have n't yet reached , there has been looting .
This man took the horse from a stable at the home of Uday Hussein , Saddam 's eldest son .
We found the house , a large , gaudy structure , a place that just a few days ago people did n't even look at for fear of their lives .
This indeed was one of Uday 's homes .
Here , the ruling family could look out over the Tigris .
People have wasted no time clearing the house and wrecking what could n't be easily taken .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : They have n't quite worked out just how to reach this will chandelier yet .
But , other than that , they have stripped this place bare in less than 24 hours .
Call it plunder , if you will , or perhaps payback .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : These Iraqis were rifling a home of a senior member of the Mukhabarat , Saddam 's dreaded secret police .
It also seemed to be some kind of monitoring station .
There was sophisticated equipment here .
In the basement , we found burning archives and evidence of electronic surveillance .
This had been a nerve center for spying , a place from where the bully boys kept tabs to keep control .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : We 're now in the bowels of a secret police monitoring station .
Look at all this gadgetry , quite sinister really , part of the apparatus of Big Brother .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : These people are stealing from a shopping center .
It has become widespread , but it 's not being done with total impunity .
These thieves are trying to flee the German Embassy , having been shot at by a guard .
John Irvine , ITV News , Baghdad .
