Welcome back .
Both the AMA and the Bush administration released reports this week saying out of control trial lawyers are driving doctors out of their practices all across the country .
President Bush points this way today , even the most frivolous of lawsuits cost money , premiums go up and either way , the patient pays .
We 're debating malpractice reform with consumer advocate Ralph Nader , and AMA President-Elect Dr. Ronald Palmisano .
Dr. Palmisano , again , thanks for staying with us through the break .
Let me set aside the hypocrisy of a man who became president because of a lawsuit trying to eliminate everybody else 's lawsuits , but instead focus on his own experience .
He was the governor of my state of Texas , where there are a whole lot of doctors .
It turns out that he did n't do any kind of a job policing your profession at all when he was the governor of Texas .
Here 's what the `` Dallas Morning News '' reported recently : `` The Texas State Board of Medical Examiners , the agency that pledges to protect the public has granted second and third chances to surgeons who are thrown out of hospitals because they botched operations .
It has forgiven physicians who overlook cancerous tumors , who maimed infants or whose mistakes left women sterilized .
It has refused in the last five years to revoke the license of a single doctor for committing medical errors .
Thousands more may have been ignored over the last decade . ''
That is the Bush record in policing surgeons , why should we trust him now ?
Well , first off ... Physicians generally , not just surgeons , forgive me .
Sure .
What we need to do is to make sure that state boards , number one , have adequate funding .
The AMA supports that .
If there are any bad doctors we want them removed from the practice of medicine .
But it 's also ... -LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- ... bad doctors ?
Well , it 's also unfair to make a judgment without knowing all of the facts of the case .
Because someone pays money in a case , the insurance company may pay money because they 're afraid there 's is going to be a giant award in this case because of this broken liability system .
Troy Brennan -LRB- ph -RRB- of Harvard said there 's no correlation with negligence , only with disability .
So let 's look at all of the facts , but give everybody due process here in America before we criticize .
Actually , Troy Brennan , the same doctor at Harvard Public School of Health said the issue is not to fuel lawsuits , it 's too many .
Less than 10 percent of the victims of medical malpractice , and we 're talking about horrific injuries here , even file a claim .
Even file a claim .
And the entire pay-out to all of the victims that get a little money , not the 90 percent who never file a claim , amounts to less than what we spend on dog food .
On dog food .
It 's about $ 5.4 billion is the pay-out .
That 's a fraction of physician income .
It 's a fraction of the health care expense of 1.4 trillion .
What we have to do is look at all the facts and have balance here .
That 's what the people in Congress have to do .
They have to make sure that whatever they decide keeps doctors in practice and patients having access to care .
Doctors are going ... But let me - but let me - wait ... Doctors are leaving practice because of insurance premium , right ?
Is that right ?
They do n't abandon their patients , except for the high premiums of a few specialties ?
Because of the premiums .
But first of all let me ... Why do n't you crack down on the insurance companies ?
No. .
Let 's talk about the facts .
Let 's talk about the facts .
That 's the fact .
-LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- percent of the doctors are insured by physician-owned insurance companies , the medical side .
I was just in Oklahoma , they own this insurance company .
They are trying to do their very best .
It 's a company not for profit .
What happens here is that more money is being paid out than comes in .
And as far as the investment income , A.M. Bests -LRB- ph -RRB- show that in the past five years , the investment income has been stable at around 5 percent .
Brown Brothers Harriman said that investments did not precipitate the current crisis .
-LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- ... payoffs have been stable , adjusted for inflation , National Practitioners Databank -LRB- ph -RRB- .
Why do you want that to be secret ?
All of the information about bad doctors in the National Practitioner bank , you , the AMA wants to keep it secret from other doctors and other patients around the country who want to know whether their doctor is on that list .
Well , let 's look at what the president is actually proposing for people who have been harmed by a bad doctor .
Let 's listen to what he said to the AMA today .
-LRB- BEGIN VIDEO CLIP -RRB- If harmed by a doc , they ought to be able to recover their economic costs , economic losses .
They should be able to recover non - economic damages as well .
But for the sake of the system , non - economic damages should be capped at $ 250,000 .
-LRB- END VIDEO CLIP -RRB- What in the world is wrong with that ?
Tell me what 's wrong with that ?
What 's wrong ?
Tell someone who had a double mastectomy , tell an infant who 's brain-damaged and has no economic loss that for the rest of their lives they 're going to get dribbled out $ 250,000 for their entire life expectancy ?
Wait a minute .
The head of AIG a few years ago was making $ 250,000 every week .
Two hundred and fifty thousand dollars is a lot of money , though .
Not for you , but for most people it 's a lot of money .
-LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- These executives , why do n't you tell ... In California - wait , Mr. Nader .
In California ... Why do n't you cap insurance ... Mr. Palmisano , go ahead .
Give me a moment , please .
Go ahead , go ahead .
In California where they have this law , it caps the non-economics , the ones you ca n't quantify .
There are awards in 10 million , 20 million , $ 30 million in California for economic .
So all medicals , all rehabilitation , care services in the home , lost wages ... No , no , no. .
I 've got to ask Mr. Nader , we are almost out of time .
Doug Friedman -LRB- ph -RRB- , who ran Jesse Ventura 's campaign for governor four years ago , says he wants you to run for president again .
I know you 're saying it 's much too early to run for president .
But one simple question , Ralph , will you consider another run for president ?
Much too early to consider .
I am concerned about Donald Zook -LRB- ph -RRB- , who 's head of a medical malpractice insurance company , a big one in the West , saying that his insurance company executive colleagues should not blame the tort injury system .
He said that your problem of jacking up these insurance rates is self-inflicted .
Here 's an insurance company executive who is saying that .
Well , Mr. Zook is one executive you are quoting .
What we need to do is look at all of the people who do n't have doctors ... Hey , let 's get some agreement .
Should we get some agreement ?
What ... Do you want to really crack down on the bad doctors ?
We want to crack down on the attorneys who file frivolous suits .
Fine .
Fine .
Seventy percent of the cases filed are told there 's no payment .
What kind of peer review is that ?
Wait .
Wait .
Do you want to crack down on the bad doctors ?
You 're in AMA .
We definitely want to crack down on bad doctors .
But ... -LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- Do you want to control insurance rates ?
We want the free market to dictate what is done .
The free market actually dictates we have got to sell some commercials here on CNN or we 're all out of ... Thanks .
Privilege to be here .
