We know that some of the American troops now fighting in Iraq are longtime veterans of warfare , probably not most , but some .
Their military service goes back to the Vietnam era .
Others , though , are novices .
So what is it like for them to face combat far from home ?
For an idea , here is CNN 's Candy Crowley with some war stories .
They are , we are told , well trained .
This is a messy business .
There 's nothing very pretty about the training that you take to prepare you for combat , because it is to kill people .
In the spring of 1970 , a squad of U.S. soldiers spotted a small unit of Viet Cong that had been circling for days .
Staff Sergeant Tom Ridge opened fire .
A Viet Cong soldier dropped dead .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : Did you at the time or have you since looked back and pondered on killing someone ?
Mm-hmm .
And what 's that like ?
That 's one of those introspective times where it 's just -- it 's just an introspective time , not a public time .
Duke Cunningham was a Vietnam fighter ace shooting down five enemy planes .
After his first , he returned to a ship deck full of sailors and crew cheering , shaking his hand , pushing in to slap his back .
And one of the guys looked at me and says : Duke , what 's it like to kill somebody ?
And , all of a sudden , bang , it just hit me .
You do n't think about those things .
And it 's removed .
It 's far off .
It 's not in close .
And I went to the priest , because it bothered me .
I knew I could do it again .
But I did n't know it was going to bother me as much as it did .
And it still does .
Of all the wounds time does not heal , the ones that fester deep in the soul are the wounds you inflict .
It 's not something that civilized people do .
You do n't -- it 's just not -- it 's not a matter of being tormented , but troubled in the sense that that 's not what we do , unless we 're called upon to do it , under the most extreme set of circumstances .
War may sometimes be a necessary thing , but it can never be a natural thing .
Training bridges that gap .
Sergeant Chuck Hagel was seriously wounded twice in Vietnam .
You are trying to kill people , because the alternative is , if you are in combat , you will be killed .
So your choices are not varied .
It 's very simple .
And so you do what you 're trained to do .
You do what you 're there to do .
And , in Vietnam , it was body count .
Training is what keeps you running toward the front while trucks loaded with dead bodies pass you , going the other way .
It 's hard to explain what training can do .
Training sets your mind to respond not to common sense and judgment , but to training .
You really do n't have time to think : I 'm going the wrong way .
I should be going the other way .
Later , when he was wounded and trapped behind enemy lines in Korea , Staff Sergeant Charlie Rangel led 40 men , fighting their way to safety .
He won a Bronze Star .
If you 're killing people , it 's out of fear , not really , in my opinion , out of bravery .
Nobody is looking for medals .
Everyone wants to live another day .
Do n't misunderstand .
Rangel , Cunningham , Ridge and Hagel are all proud , decorated combat veterans .
It 's just , a decade later , killing still troubles the soul .
Maybe that 's a good thing .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : Did you do it again ?
I did .
I shot down four more MiGs .
And I often told myself -- I said that , if I ever get used to this , I should n't be here .
Candy Crowley , CNN , Washington .
Remarkable interviews and a reminder that what these men and women are going through right now in Iraq , they will remember for the rest of their lives .
That 's our coverage this hour .
