Dominating the city gates to Basra .
Saddam Hussein and his henchmen still claim to control this southern port .
But the British want to send a powerful symbolic message .
Soldiers are here to tear down the regime and all it stands for .
By the time they leave Iraq , they 're determined Saddam and his Ba'ath Party will have bitten the dust .
The approach can seem frustratingly slow , but day by day , the Desert Rats are exerting more control .
Checkpoints meant to filter out Iraqi hardliners .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : They 're well within striking distance of the mortars and rockets of the Fedayeen militia , but they 're prepared to take that risk to try and persuade the people of Basra that they wo n't desert them , that they 'll stick with this however messy it gets .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : Drastic action is need to convince a dubious population .
Get down , get down !
We watched a nighttime raid on the homes of Ba'ath Party officials and Fedayeen militia .
These are men singled out by locals and believed by army intelligence to be behind much of the brutality and corruption .
Most are not accused of specific crimes but suspected of being part of the state-sponsored climate of fear .
-LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- , get up !
The party 's influence extends to every corner of Iraqi society .
In two small communities , we witnessed more than 70 people being rounded up .
Some are clearly terrified of what lies ahead , uncertain of their fate , overcome by nerves .
But as it ended , there was no British apology for the scale of the operation .
We came in firm , we came in fair .
There was no shots fired .
We gave a good warning before we came in .
We 've been playing warnings to people to stay in their houses , and we 've only lifted those people we 've got very good intelligence on .
This is not a tactic that can be regularly repeated , or the British risk being accused of installing their own rule of terror .
Despite the discomfort of a few , there 's a conviction that this is a night 's work that will benefit the majority .
Juliet Bremner in Basra .
Well , there has been a terrible discovery by some other British troops in southern Iraq .
Up next , evidence at a makeshift morgue points to mass executions by the Iraqi regime .
But first , more scenes from today 's fighting in Baghdad .
