Former Illinois Senator Carol Moseley-Braun recently decided to run for president .
Early reviews have not been good , so yesterday she announced she 'll be making some changes .
Not to her ideas , which are few .
Not to her record , which is pretty embarrassing .
Not even to her staff , which is , of course , tiny .
But to her name .
From here on out , Carol Moseley-Braun as Carol Moseley Braun .
Did you catch the difference ?
In the second version , there is no hyphen between her last names .
Moseley Braun expects that primary voters in Iowa and New Hampshire will react enthusiastically to this radical , grammatical transformation .
They 'll have to , because the latest CNN poll shows Moseley Braun far behind the candidate she set out to discredit .
That would be , of course , the honorable Al Sharpton .
Sharpton is not only by far the first choice of black voters nationally , he is tied with Senator John Edwards among all voters and beating Governor Howard Dean , Representative Dennis Kucinich and Senator Bob Graham .
Beating them .
And Al Sharpton did n't even have to change his name .
How did he become honorable ?
Yes !
-LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- You become honorable by winning an election of some sort or having a high post , being an ambassador or a governor or some thing .
By embodying the values of your party .
Your values , not mine .
He 's the No. 1 pick , the most popular , among all candidates , among black primary voters .
I mean , you ca n't dismiss him .
He 's a serious candidate .
We have n't even begun the primaries .
He 's not a serious candidate .
He 's right wing fantasy and it 's never going to happen .
Not right wing .
Take Al Sharpton seriously , that 's our message tonight .
In a moment , we 'll ask two members of Congress if they 're convinced that war is the only way to make Saddam Hussein disarm .
Later , the pope practices religion and a little anti-war politics on the side .
Then , can you spell prosthetic nose ?
Maureen Orth can , and she does in a new `` Vanity Fair '' profile of Michael Jackson .
We 'll talk to her .
You wo n't want to miss that .
We 'll be right back .
