Welcome back to CROSSFIRE .
Over in Iraq , arms inspectors are discovering and destroying missiles .
Spy planes are searching for more banned arms , and Iraqi scientists are being interviewed by U.N. weapons inspectors .
But here in Washington , President Bush says it 's all a hoax , and many believe he has already made up his mind to go to war .
Back with us to talk about it , two Congressmen : J.D. Hayworth , the Republican from Arizona , and Bernie Sanders , an Independent from Vermont .
Congressman Sanders , you 're opposed to this war .
I 'm not crazy about it myself .
But I want to ask you a question .
When the guns begin to fire , when the American men and women are in harm 's way and may be dying , is that now the time for you and your allies to shut up and support the troops ?
-LRB- APPLAUSE -RRB- Well it 's not -- are you suggesting that when tens and thousands of Iraqi women and children are killed , and when young men and women in this country are unnecessarily put at harm 's risk , what should we do ?
The answer is , these are my neighbors from Vermont and obviously we 're going to support them .
And obviously we 're going to pray that there 's fewer casualties ... Are you going to demonstrate against them in the streets ?
No , I do n't demonstrate against anybody during a war .
But let 's be clear .
The president almost unilaterally is putting us in this position against world opinion .
Did n't the Congress support it ?
I thought you voted for it .
I did not vote for it .
I mean the Congress .
The majority rules .
Yes .
The Congress gave him authority , but the American people disagreed with the decision .
Not according to the polls .
Not the polls that I have seen .
Congressman Hayworth , back to a comment .
And I know that you meant it and I agreed with it .
You said , `` This is Saddam Hussein , the butcher of Baghdad . ''
I 'm curious , would that have accurately described him in 1988 ?
Oh , yes .
I think it does .
I think it has described him , especially since he 's taken basically a one-man rule over with the Baath Party in 1979 .
I agree .
Therefore , was n't Dick Cheney , as the CEO of Halliburton , wrong to be selling oilfield equipment to the butcher of Baghdad in 1988 ?
I do n't know about any oil equipment going to Saddam Hussein .
What I do know in the here and now is ... I can tell you about it if you like .
That 's fine .
And I know you 'd love to cloud the issue .
That 's an important issue to me .
No , it 's so important -- you know this -- and I know it 's fun and we love doing partisan Punch & Judy , but is there ever a time when we stand up even if we respectfully disagree with the commander in chief and those who would wage war ?
Dissent is fine , but these cheap shots , I do n't know anything about Halliburton .
He had $ 73 million worth of -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- to sell oilfield equipment to Saddam Hussein .
-LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- What I do know is Saddam Hussein has butchered over a million of his own citizens .
And to somehow try to play partisan parlor games may be cute , but we are dealing with a clear and present danger .
Would you have treated him as a customer , the way Dick Cheney did ?
I do n't even know about that .
Would you have sold oilfield equipment to him ?
-LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- Furthermore , the United States supported him in the war against Iran .
Yes .
Hello ?
Iran had hostages .
Seventy-nine Americans were held hostage .
Hello ?
Hello ?
We 're talking ... -LRB- CROSSTALK -RRB- What we 're talking about is the unpredictable nature of war and what could happen in this war .
For example -- wait a second -- in Iran , the reason that you had Ayatollah Khomeini in power is he overthrew the Shah .
You who put the Shah in power ?
The United States of America .
Oh the evil United States .
But the point is ... I want to get to that point .
But the problem with Khomeini was that the guy who he overthrew was put in power by the United States .
I ca n't quite figure that out .
We overthrew -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- and put the Shah of Iran in power .
Everybody knows that .
The CIA did that .
But I mean you 're attacking the CIA for putting him in , when it was -- the problem was Khomeini .
No , the point I made , Khomeini came about because we put a brutal dictator , the Shah of Iran , in power .
The point that I am making is you can not ... The point you 're making is blame America first .
No I 'm not .
That 's what you 're doing .
You 're talking about blowback .
You do n't know what happens when the most powerful nation on Earth invades and occupies a Muslim nation and kills tens of thousands of people .
We know what happens .
Congressman Sanders -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
Bernie Sanders , an Independent from Vermont , thank you very much .
Congressman J.D. Hayworth , a Republican from Arizona , thank you both very much .
We will come back to this debate , believe me .
One of our viewers , though , thinks there 's a sure fire way to get that al Qaeda ring leader to talk .
We 'll let him fire back in a little bit .
But next , out of all of the pictures from this weekend 's nail biter between J.D. Hayworth 's alma mater of -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- state , and Bob Novak 's beloved University of Maryland , only one photo is dramatic enough or politically charged enough to be the CROSSFIRE `` Picture of the Day . ''
You do not want to miss this .
-LRB- APPLAUSE -RRB-
