Well , U.S. forces entering Baghdad do face the prospect of urban combat , a type of battle they have trained for , but , of course , they would prefer to avoid .
For more now on the unique challenges posed by urban combat , let 's go back to Atlanta and join the man whose voice we just heard , Miles O'Brien .
Hello again , Miles .
Hello again , Judy .
I 'm joined by J. Kelly McCann , our security analyst , a man who 's spent a lot of time learning about urban combat .
You know , just those two words together , I think , scare a lot of people because of all the things that can go wrong .
You know , I 'm impressed , looking at this map , it almost looks like a chess game , kind of sterile .
That is -- could n't be further from the truth , could it ?
Absolutely not .
This is very clean and it 's very orderly .
Suddenly when we show the videotape and we start to go there , you 'll see just how conflicted an environment that is .
And all happening so quickly .
-LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
Let 's roll some tape .
We 're going to kind of play it and stop it , and Kelly 's going to walk us through , I guess , Urban Combat 101 .
What are we seeing here ?
Just there , I mean , just getting the door out of the way , you can see where the weapons have to go .
Now , you just see this soldier right here , he 's going to his sidearm to make a little bit more mobile .
And he 's got to be careful of his muzzle pointing at his partner right here .
Now , he 's going to go that direction , because that room is clear .
Go ahead and stop the tape .
As you make every entry , Miles , there are two dead spots , one , of course , in this direction right here , which you ca n't see from the doorway , the other in this direction right here , and that 's always the problem , because as you come in here , you 've got to be able to get in there quickly and make sure that this person here does n't get shot in the back .
So ... All right .
Now , what about this , this armor ?
Tell us how they 're equipped with armor there .
Level 4 armor , this is not just for frag .
This will also stop bullets .
And there 's a difference .
The normal flak jacket will stop fragments from grenades , et cetera .
This is a plate that will actually stop and deform a bullet .
All right .
Let 's roll tape and continue on here and talk about -- Now , I notice his hand -- his sidearm is attached to him .
That 's for ... Exactly ... ... -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- ... ... -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- retention , for retention capability .
So he goes down the hallway , and you can see once that 's called clear , straight trigger finger , in case there 's any sympathetic muscle tightening , there 's no problem .
You 'll see another person come right up here , and he 'll hold on this door , because that 's not been cleared space yet , again , straight trigger finger , but ready to shoot if he needs to .
Sort of ready but not quite -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
Absolutely .
-LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
Immediately making entry with the thing , and then pying -LRB- ph -RRB- the room out , getting angles of vision as they clear it .
But look at that , a dark space from a lighted space .
Who knows what 's in the recesses ?
All right .
Let 's roll that second tape quickly , and we 'll show you a couple more tips from Kelly 's perspective .
So far , what we 're seeing is pretty much textbook .
Absolutely .
-LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- ... All right .
Now , this is a rural setting , but this could be applied to urban combat , yes .
Very different circumstance .
Same thing when you come into a building .
But stop the tape right here ... Oop , we missed it , we missed it ... ... if you would , -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- -- It 's all right .
You can see all this area ... No , just roll it .
... out here .
Just go ahead and roll it .
All of that has to be accounted for as well , not just the space in here .
Your back is not covered .
Many angles you 've got to watch for .
Now , you see right here , he 's got a sidearm , he 's calling the team in .
All the rear is -- Now , stop the tape .
Yes , -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
Imagine a person that is concealed anywhere in here .
I mean , you could have anyone with a rifle back in these areas here ... Up in this area here , here ... ... in any of these recesses back over here .
Oop .
I mean , you know , you 're looking at -- he would n't have a bomb -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- ... No , he would n't have that .
But let me ask you this .
Also that the garb , -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- there 's a cultural issue here .
That provides a lot of cover for weapons if need be , right ?
Absolutely .
And someones might say , Well , why put their hands on their head like this ?
Because , you know , you -- the hands hurt .
And I wo n't be able to determine what you 're doing with your face .
Where are your hands and what do they hold ?
All right .
Let 's roll it real quickly and we 'll make a few more points , if we could .
A lot of fear in their faces here .
You see , by the way , they all have radios , I notice they have , like , a little headset there .
That allows them to communicate -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- ... Immediate communications , absolutely .
You see them having their sectors of fire .
All these areas up in here , you know , could be subjected to people hiding , et cetera .
Now you 've got people coming down that have already been cleared .
Look at the fear on the faces .
They do n't understand what 's going on .
And you want to keep them calm , and ... Very calm , reassure them that this is n't about them .
Wow .
Now , here 's a little bit more aggressive stance .
Exactly .
Go ahead and stop tape ... Stop it right there .
Oh , we missed it again .
... if you can .
Obviously , that person is doing something that that soldier did n't appreciate .
I would say aggressive is a good word for that ... Absolutely .
... the business end of that M-16 .
All right , Kelly McCann , thank you for some insights .
And that -- compound that by a city of 5 million , it kind of boggles the mind and really gives you a sense of what lies head for U.S. and coalition forces .
Thanks very much for your insights .
Pleasure , Miles .
Judy .
Thanks , Miles and Kelly .
I 've always wondered what happened -- who covers the last man or woman in one of those operations , but that 's something for your next conversation .
