An apparent friendly fire incident in northern Iraq is taking more of a toll on Kurdish leaders than we knew at first .
Eighteen people are now reported dead .
And there are late reports that the 45 wounded include the brother and a son of a Kurdish political leader .
Julian Manyon of ITN has more from Northern Iraq .
It is another friendly fire disaster .
This morning , an American bomb destroyed a convoy carrying high officials of the Kurdish Peshmerga forces , which have been fighting alongside the Americans on the northern front .
At least 17 Kurdish commanders and their guards were killed , along with an interpreter working for the BBC .
More than 40 were injured .
The military chief of the Kurdish KDP , the brother of their leader , Massud Barzani -LRB- ph -RRB- , was gravely hurt .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : Trying to organize a northern front with just a few hundred U.S. Special Forces troops and the poorly armed Kurdish Peshmerga guerrillas was always going to be a high-risk exercise .
The idea was to open the way with heavy sustained American bombing of Iraqi positions .
But today , it all went disastrously wrong .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : Even as we filmed the wreckage , U.S. jets were still dropping their bombs nearby .
Giant explosions erupted down the road .
Earlier , we had joined another convoy of U.S. Special Forces troops and Kurdish fighters as they tried to move south through country abandoned by the Iraqi army .
At first , all was calm .
American troops controlled the operation from a rooftop .
Then , as the Kurds advanced again , the Iraqis opened up .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : Now we 're hearing the boom of Iraqi guns as they fire towards our positions .
All morning , the Kurds have been trying to advance , and that was the shell going off .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : The Iraqi gunners rapidly found our range , and we took refuge in an abandoned farm house .
Get down .
Get down !
We finally managed to get out by car .
Here in the north , Iraqi tanks and guns are still firing , and the American effort is looking a little ragged .
Julian Manyon , ITV News , on the northern front .
Julian Manyon with some very dramatic pictures as we look at the live pictures of Baghdad at night .
We will take a short break , our live coverage continues .
