We 've been hearing about the situation in northern and southern Iraq .
Now to central Iraq , where coalition forces say they are now in charge .
And they are coming across some major munitions finds .
The caches were apparently abandoned by retreating Iraqi forces .
One such cache turned up in the city of Karbala , a strategic military point about 60 miles to the south of Baghdad .
CNN 's Ryan Chilcote is embedded with the 101st Airborne Division , and he has the story .
Can you show us what you 've been finding today ?
Roger .
Well , this is about the third cache we 've found today .
We 've been finding them nonstop , and it 's a really tedious affair .
I 've got an assortment of weapons right here , ranging from AK-47s , to over here , behind them , you 'll see mortar sights , 60-millimeter and 81 .
Off on the far left , you 'll see a second-generation starscope , kind of outdated , but still works .
If you keep shifting over , you 'll see stabilizer fins for mortar rounds .
On the back here , you 'll see both 60 - and 82-millimeter mortars .
These are well equipped .
Well , they 're very well equipped .
Definitely put up a fight .
Rocket-propelled grenades .
Been finding a lot of these lately .
These could take out a Jeep or a Humvee in a heartbeat .
Now , is this a -- you said you 'd seen a lot of weapons caches recently found .
-LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
Is this a large cache ?
No , I 'd say this is about a medium cache .
What ... This looks like a lot of weapons .
It looks like a lot of weapons , but it 's really not .
This -- technically , this would probably would outfit a platoon , a platoon of -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- .
OK .
Keep going on .
This is a little bit more advanced , these are 25-millimeter shells , and each one of those silver boxes you see behind them hold 50 of these shells .
That 's a little bit above us .
That 's actually going into mechanized and armor .
All right .
And you were talking about the makers , where some of these weapons are coming from , and you were expressing surprise to me .
Roger .
A majority of these are coming from -- -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- on this box , but Jordan and France .
We have a very scattered , limited , and Russian equipment , but like I said , France and Jordan are the main suppliers right here .
Now for your guys , this is dangerous work , finding ... It 's -- yes , it 's extremely dangerous , because once you enter these buildings , we found , actually , enemy , you know , guarding these sites .
Do n't know if they 're going to be booby trapped .
Do n't know what -- what 's going to be there .
So it 's very tedious , it 's -- got to be careful about it .
Well , we 've heard a whole lot about Iraq 's use of human shields in defending key sites .
Coalition fighters , though , use a different kind of shield .
In a CNN exclusive , CNN 's Kyra Phillips offers us a ride-along over the city of Baghdad with some airborne bodyguards .
We wo n't consider the mission a success unless the Marines are happy with the product .
They are coalition bodyguards over Baghdad , an airborne shield to U.S. Marines .
Let them know what 's coming .
Let them know if anything is coming back behind them on their franks to close off the supply lines .
You 're now airborne over Iraq with Commander Steve Kroto 's -LRB- ph -RRB- Gray Knights , the Navy 's P-3 eyes in the sky .
Any kind of forces that look like they may be threatening the Marines , you know , we want to let them know .
And we have the capability to send pictures or actual video , and then they can make -LRB- UNINTELLIGIBLE -RRB- if they want to maybe avoid that area or go ahead and go out and engage those folks .
Dodging missiles and triple-A fire is something new to this squadron .
However , protecting forces on the ground is n't .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : These men are about three hours into their mission , and the sun is starting to set .
They 've just come across one of the Marine convoys that they need to track , so they 're watching every move that the Marines make as they move towards Baghdad , making sure they do n't come across any type of threat .
We 're getting closer to it .
Also on this mission , Marine Colonel Jim Lukeman -LRB- ph -RRB- and Sergeant Emilio Hernandez .
They are tracking and talking to their fellow Marines on the ground ... Two vehicles move across the bridge ... ... making sure they do n't get ambushed .
I 'm looking for enemy positions out to the front .
We 'll look at the routes ahead of where our guys are going to go and try to see what enemy is there .
Lukeman is warning his troops about a bridge ahead .
He does n't like what he sees .
The Gray Knights fly closer and grab a clearer picture .
There 's some vehicular traffic , so that we know the bridge is still intact .
They may be Iraqi military .
So now that the Marine division on the ground has that information , they 'll take that action -- they 'll take action tactically on it .
These flights can last up to 15 hours , but it 's the minutes of realtime intelligence that completes the mission .
When you 're on the ground fighting , every piece of information you 've got about what you 're coming up against is golden .
Commander Steve Kroto brings his crew home after locating enemy positions and surface-to-surface missiles .
It keeps the Marines safe .
And one more safe Marine is one more Marine that can continue on north to Baghdad .
Flying over Iraq , Kyra Phillips , CNN .
Coming up , we are going to go live to Fort Bliss , where the name of that base is a far cry from the mood there today , after confirmation that more of their own were killed on the battlefield .
