The United States Navy and Coast Guard crews are providing port security in the Persian Gulf during the Iraq war .
And one group of sailors is getting letters from elementary school children in North Carolina .
The students are getting inspiration from their teacher , who has a personal connection , as CNN 's Daryn Kagan reports .
It started as a story on port security , how U.S. Navy and Coast Guard reserves are keeping ships safe from attack in Kuwait and Iraq .
-LRB- on camera -RRB- : The mission of these units is to protect these ports .
-LRB- voice-over -RRB- : But among the boats , guns , radar , sonar and communications , we found a secret weapon posted on the side of the tent that serves as the command center : letters from second-graders .
Each one starts the same way .
`` Dear brave friend . ''
`` Dear brave friend . ''
`` Dear brave friend .
Hello .
My name is Ryan .
I am in second grade .
You are keeping the United States of America safe .
You are ... '' `` You are my best friend .
You can keep this in your bag .
Sincerely , Ryan . ''
I 'm the big brother .
It turns out this is actually a story about a brother , Lieutenant Commander Mike Roberts , and a supportive sister , Christine Cupolo .
Yes , I do .
My brother is in Kuwait .
My sister is a grammar school teacher in Clayton , North Carolina .
He was sent over right next to the Persian Gulf now since New Year 's Eve .
And this is one of many deployments he 's been on , but this one is probably the most crucial .
Her second-graders were very interested in sending some letters out to the troops .
So , I knew that , at one point or another , my children needed to write .
I thought that would be a real uplifting experience for the troops .
And she says : `` Dear brave friend .
Hello .
My name is Amanda . ''
`` We would have to say that you are a very brave person .
When the war starts , your heart will be in our souls . ''
For these kids to takes time to read letters to us and stuff like that in their class , what more can you ask ?
Just keep it going .
There will be more letters on the way .
Back in North Carolina , the Riverwood Elementary second-graders are working on the next batch .
Absolutely .
You might want to mention that in your letter as well .
This time , they hope the sailors will write back with answers to their questions .
So you want to know how fast the dolphins there are swimming ?
OK .
I would write that down .
I would say : `` Dear , friend , I have some questions for you .
I want to know about the dolphins that are helping you out over there . ''
Can you do that ?
Do you think you could ask them a question ?
Sure .
They will be happy to answer it .
We started work on our letters the last week of February and worked on them the first week of March and sent them out a few weeks ago .
And they got the letters pretty quickly over there .
But I think this helps me stay closer to my brother .
Any message to your sister ?
Yes .
I 'd just like to tell her , thank you very much , Christine .
Hope you 're doing well in North Carolina .
And thank you very much to your students for all the support and the letters that they sent out to us .
Their second-grade work keeping watch over those who keep watch in the Persian Gulf .
Daryn Kagan , CNN , Kuwait .
Those letters important at both ends .
That 's it for this hour .
I 'm Judy Woodruff in Washington .
