The people of Tikrit are saying Saddam 's family left that city three days ago , well before the Americans arrived .
Saddam 's clan is said to have left for a small village in the desert .
12:19 p.m. : CNN 's Ryan Chilcote reports the 101st Airborne 2nd Brigade finds 11 of what an Army general describes as chem-bio labs buried to avoid detection near Karbala , each of the structures 20-by - 20 feet .
And the military also found over 1,000 pounds of documents buried at the site .
U.S. inspections will continue there .
Well , Baghdad is a city where drinking water and working telephones are hot commodities .
Now , regular cell phones rarely work these days in the city , we 're told , but satellite phones are another story entirely .
CNN 's Rula Amin reports from the Iraqi capital .
They wait for hours to find a journalist and they plead with us to borrow our mobile satellite phones .
They need to send a message to their families abroad just to tell them , `` We are alive , '' says this woman .
Here , they wait outside a restaurant where journalists hang out .
And they are desperate .
`` Only for one minute , '' says this mother .
She wants to call her pregnant daughter Saba -LRB- ph -RRB- in Sweden to see if she has delivered .
`` It 's not good for her to worry about us , '' she says .
Across the fence , a 21-year-old U.S. Marine named Jason Cook -LRB- ph -RRB- is after the same phones .
He wants to call his mom in Houston .
A `` New York Times '' reporter lends Cook his mobile sat phone .
I love you too , mom .
Hey , old man .
I 'm in the middle of Baghdad , just patrolling up and down the streets .
Cook has n't spoken to his family since Super Bowl Sunday , January 26 .
On this one sidewalk in Baghdad , they were all doing the most natural thing during war , trying to reach their loved ones .
My mother , brother and sister .
How many do you have ?
I got an older brother and a little brother and sister .
His mother told him to keep his head down .
She did n't believe I was really talking to her .
We do our share .
And the first to call is the mother .
Saba has n't delivered yet .
Nevertheless , the mother is happy .
Everyone wanted to call .
We could n't accommodate everybody .
So , on small notes , they wrote the phone numbers we did n't get to dial , hoping we 'd deliver on our promise that we 'd call on their behalf .
Rula Amin , CNN , Baghdad .
Makes you wish they had enough satellite phones to go around for everybody .
Thanks , Rula .
Up next : the commander-in-chief 's political future .
Now that the war is winding down , is his support among Democrats looking up ?
