Absa reports solid growth with Barclays in control
Absa , the South African banking group , said its integration with new majority-owner Barclays was proceeding well as it announced a jump in its interim profit .
The country 's biggest retail bank saw pre-tax profit for the six months ending September 30 rise from R3.33bn to R4.12bn ( Pounds 360m ) .
Absa yesterday reported good growth across its business units , including retail , commercial , and wholesale and international banking .
Steve Booysen , chief executive , said he expected the growth momentum to continue for the rest of the year .
Barclays paid nearly R28bn ( Pounds 2.44bn ) for a controlling stake of Absa in July .
The UK bank , which has committed to cap its stake at 60 per cent , owned 56.4 per cent of the bank at the end of September , Absa said .
The strong performance allowed Absa to lift its interim dividend by 68.4 per cent to 160 cents a share .
Net interest income was up 21.1 per cent at R6.25bn.
Absa said an implementation programme promising to produce R1.4bn in annual synergy benefits was progressing well .
The banks are in the process of cutting costs and boosting revenues by using Barclays ' global purchasing power , information technology and risk capability .
The banks have estimated the implementation costs for the merger at R1.8bn.
The merger will see Absa extend its reach into sub-Saharan Africa by acquiring nine of Barclays ' operations on the continent outside South Africa .
Mr Booysen told the FT that he was " very bullish " about South Africa 's chances of meeting the government 's target of sustained gross domestic product growth of 6 per cent .
Sound economic policies and planned infrastructure spending , coupled with the growth of the black middle class , made the target achievable , he said .
With 6 per cent growth , " you can grow on the economy , not at the expense of competitors , " he said .
Absa is South Africa 's second-biggest bank by assets , which totalled R381bn at the end of September , up from R311.5bn a year previously .
It has the most customers of any South African bank - 7.5m , up from 7m six months earlier .
Mr Booysen said he expected two interest-rate rises of 50 basis points each next year .
Economists have warned that a rate rise could damp South Africa 's consumption boom , from which banks have profited .
Absa lifted its interim dividend by 68.4 per cent to 160 cents a share .
Shares in Absa fell 50 cents to R88.80.
