Aggreko falls to two-year low following Unilever warning
Just two paragraphs long , Unilever ' s overnight profit warning may have been brief but its effects were wide , writes Bryce Elder .
Aggreko dropped to a two-year low in reaction to Unilever 's warning that currency devaluations had held back emerging markets growth .
Shares in the temporary power specialist dropped 3.9 per cent to pound(s)15.41.
Short sellers have been targeting Aggreko on the argument that , since the company bills its emerging markets customers in dollars , local currency weakness was likely to be stalling investment decisions .
About 10 per cent of Aggreko 's free float is loaned to short sellers in advance of a trading update from the group due at the end of the month .
Unilever itself dropped 3.4 per cent pound(s)23.58.
Analysts were worried by the breadth of its problems as imported cost inflation squeezed disposable incomes , with Brazil , Colombia , Mexico , India , Thailand , Bangladesh , South Africa and Russia all said to have deteriorated sharply in recent months .
" Although most staples companies have acknowledged some signs of organic slowdown in the third quarter , at this stage only Unilever has talked so broadly about the size and geographic spread of weakening demand , " said Barclays .
Barclays saw SABMiller and Coca-Cola HBC among the most vulnerable , seeing 2014 earnings downgrades of up to 10 per cent and potential downside for the stocks of around 25 per cent and 45 per cent , respectively .
SAB , which takes more than a quarter of group sales from South Africa and Colombia , fell 2.8 per cent to pound(s)30.55.
Coca-Cola HBC was off 1.4 per cent at pound(s)18.25.
Bullion miners held back the wider market after gold fell below $1,300 an ounce .
The FTSE 100 paused , down 2.21 points at 6,460.01 as Fresnillo led the fallers with a 4.9 per cent decline to 924.5p.
William Hill climbed 3.1 per cent to 415.5p as the clearing of a stock overhang inflated volume to about three times the daily average .
Separately , William Hill management was said to have met investors overnight , which helped bolster confidence that the adverse sporting results reported by peers were no more than a blip that had already been priced into the market .
EasyJet was up 3.1 per cent to pound(s)13.18. helped by Redburn " buy " advice , while IAG was up 1.7 per cent to 344p .
The airlines , which have both gained 123 per cent over the past year , will provide monthly traffic data tomorrow .
In a buoyant insurance sector , Aviva was up 2.8 per cent to 408.1p after Merrill Lynch repeated a " buy " recommendation .
Chief executive Mark Wilson gave a confident speech to a Merrill conference last month on improving cash generation and restoring its dividend , the broker told clients , adding : " We think that can happen faster than consensus expects .
It is highly likely , in our view , that further costs savings above the planned pound(s)400m will be delivered . "
Merrill was also keen on Rolls-Royce , up 2 per cent to pound(s)11.34 , which it said had been oversold .
Credit Suisse advised taking profits in African Minerals , down 6.1 per cent to 211.3p.
While last week 's investment deal with Chinese metals trader Tewoo had the potential to lift African north of 300p , the Sierra Leone miner remained vulnerable to falling iron ore prices , Credit Suisse said .
Credit : By Bryce Elder
