Ailing group 's plea on Barclays debt deal
Biofuels Corporation , operator of the UK 's largest biodiesel plant , yesterday warned insolvency was unavoidable unless shareholders agree a Pounds 40m debt-for-equity restructuring under which Barclays , its banker , will take over the business .
Facing debt of Pounds 100m and market conditions that have made its production of biodiesel unprofitable at current price levels , Biofuels has only been able to continue trading as a result of Barclays ' support .
The group , which raised Pounds 44m in two placings to help fund its creation of one of Europe 's biggest biodiesel plants at Seal Sands , Teesside , now proposes to cancel its Aim listing .
" If the restructuring does not proceed , an insolvency process will be unavoidable , " it said yesterday .
" In such circumstances , given the level of existing debt , shareholders will receive no value . "
The deal requires backing from 75 per cent of Biofuels ' shareholders at an extraordinary meeting to be held on July 23 .
Biofuels shares , which floated at 75p in June 2004 and had peaked at 311p in March 2005 , yesterday fell 4 3/4p to 7p .
Sean Sutcliffe , Biofuels ' chief executive , who owns 58,000 shares , described the company 's troubles as " disappointing " but added : " This reflects reality today in terms of the market and the balance sheet . "
He said investors should not be scared off the renewables sector , but " the market support mechanisms need to be very clear and long term to encourage investment .
We are asking people to make risk investments , so we need long-term structures in place " .
Under the proposal , ownership of 94 per cent of the equity in Biofuels Corporation Trading will transfer to Barclays in exchange for Pounds 40m of the existing debt .
Barclays will release the group from its obligations to repay all outstanding debt and provide funds to pay all outstanding creditors .
The plan means Biofuels , to be renamed Earls Nook , will have a 6 per cent minority shareholding in Biofuels Trading as its only significant asset .
Biofuels ' executive directors - Mr Sutcliffe , finance director Andy Leeser and commercial and operations director Richard Nickels - will become directors of Newco , set up by Barclays to control its 94 per cent stake .
Newco 's chairman , appoin-ted by Barclays Ventures , will be chemical engineer Stephen Boyd , chairman of Pittards .
Clare Spottiswoode , also deputy chairman of British Energy , is to quit as a Biofuels non-executive .
High vegetable oil prices and low biodiesel prices have exacerbated Biofuels ' difficulties , which originated in decisions by previous management .
These included a hedging deal that cost it Pounds 50m when prices moved against it and technical problems .
It is pursuing a potential claim against plant providers Energea .
Biofuels ' results for the year to March 31 , published yesterday , showed a pre-tax loss of Pounds 32m ( Pounds 74.4m ) .
This included interest charges of Pounds 10m ( Pounds 11.7m ) and exceptional items of Pounds 12m , including a Pounds 6.8m asset impairment change .
