Annual profits up 63 % at BHP *Mining giant predicts the bull run will continue *Investors unimpressed by Dollars 3bn share buy-back
BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest mining group , yesterday forecast an extended commodities bull run on the back of supply shortages and strong growth in demand , as it reported record earnings and announced a Dollars 3bn ( Pounds 1.6bn ) share buy-back .
Charles " Chip " Goodyear , chief executive , said he expected to see further increases in demand from China , the world 's fastest growing economy , as well as a pick-up in Europe and Japan , offsetting any slowdown in the US .
Metals prices would also be supported by supply constraints and disruption .
" A supply side that struggles to cope with demand will be characteristic of our industry in the short and medium term , " he added .
Mr Goodyear said during a conference call yesterday : " Over the next year , we do n't see anything that gives us great concerns but the supply side does take time to respond , both in terms of new projects and disruptions . "
He said the disruption from the 16-day strike at Escondida , the world 's biggest copper mine in Chile , was manageable , adding that it was important for the group to stick to a wage structure that was suitable for the economic cycle .
Workers at the mine , which is controlled by BHP , emphatically rejected the company 's latest pay offer this week .
BHP said that annual net profits rose by 63 per cent to Dollars 10.45bn after a 77 per cent rise in second-half earnings .
Mr Goodyear said there had been some moderation in costs in the second half because about 60 per cent of the cost increases in the past financial year were incurred in the first half .
He said about 70 per cent of the rises were cyclical , so they would come down if the commodities market started to reverse .
The share buy-back will focus on BHP 's London-listed equity , which has been trading at a discount of about 5 per cent to the shares in Australia .
" You want to buy in the cheapest place and that 's certainly what we intend to do , " he said .
However , the share price fell yesterday , closing down by 1.3 per cent at ADollars 28.39 in Australia .
Analysts said investors had been expecting BHP to return more money or offer a special dividend .
Oil was one of the few underperforming sectors for BHP because production was flat .
But the company said it was optimistic that new projects would soon change things - notably Atlantis in the Gulf of Mexico , which has seen big cost overruns but should eventually produce 26m barrels of oil a year .
The oil division represented about 19.4 per cent of earnings before tax in the past year .
Mr Goodyear said there was " plenty of opportunity to spend money " in the cash-rich mining sector but indicated that BHP would probably monitor takeover activity from the sidelines .
" There 's not a whole lot that we are not in .
If there 's something that makes sense , yes , but we do n't see a lot of holes in the portfolio . ' '
