B&B strikes Barclays support deal
BANKS ; Move follows credit rating downgrades ; Higher-rated third party needed
Bradford & Bingley , the embattled mortgage lender that has been downgraded to one notch above junk status by Moody 's , yesterday struck a deal with Barclays to act as a counterparty for its covered bond programme .
B&B was forced to look for a new interest swap provider to stand behind its covered bond programme following an earlier ratings downgrade in July .
Moody 's downgrade meant B&B was forced to find a third party with a higher credit rating to fulfil the role .
Covered bonds are usually backed by mortgages and are normally seen as ultra-safe because they are also guaranteed by the issuing bank .
B&B has been under mounting pressure in recent days because of the difficult wholesale markets after it was downgraded by Moody 's , Fitch and Standard & Poor 's amid fears about its rising arrears .
B&B 's credit default swap spreads - a guide to the risks for debt market investors - yesterday rose to 812 basis points , double that of a month ago .
Because B&B is only 43 per cent funded through retail deposits , a downgrade to junk status would make it tougher to access wholesale funding and could lead to equity investors abandoning the stock .
Possible triggers for a downgrade could include a profit warning if arrears were to deteriorate further .
S&P said that its downgrade reflected the view that " constraints on B&B have increased materially in recent weeks , although liquidity is currently strong " .
It believes that concerns over asset quality in B&B 's loan book - which is 85 per cent made up of self-certified and buy-to-let loans - " mean that wholesale unsecured lending markets are effectively closed to B&B and as a result this source of funding has substantially declined " .
However , B&B shares rose 1/4 p yesterday to 25p after it struck a deal to avoid taking an additional pound(s)1bn in mortgages on to its balance sheet and renegotiated its agreement with GMAC-RFC , the UK arm of the US financial group .
Under the original deal with GMAC , B&B was committed to absorbing mortgages worth a further pound(s)1.75bn by the end of 2009 .
Instead , B&B will now take mortgages worth pound(s)500m by the end of the year and a further pound(s)225m-pound(s)250m in the first quarter of 2009 .
Arrears on the GMAC mortgages have turned out to be significantly higher than on B&B 's own book , adding to concerns about the bank 's capital position .
Credit : By Jane Croft , Retail Banking Correspondent
