Bad news on Tesco deal forces Woolworths to warn on profits
The loss of a key music distribution contract with Tesco hit Woolworths ' share price , in spite of the general retailer reporting Christmas trading was better than expected .
Trevor Bish-Jones , chief executive , warned that profits next year would be Pounds 10m down as a result of Tesco changing the terms of a contract with Woolworth 's Entertainment UK venture , which supplies the UK 's largest supermarket group with music and films .
In addition , he said it was unlikely that the contract , which accounts for 40 to 45 per cent of the unit 's sales , would be renewed .
It has one more year to run .
While Woolworths hoped to replace most of the lost business with other clients , Mr Bish-Jones said if not the freed working capital would find a good home .
" I am fairly confident that we will find better investments for it . "
Woolworths ' chief executive highlighted the development of its online business and ruled out a return of cash to shareholders , as demanded by Woolworths ' investor Elliott Associates last year after an aborted bid by Permira .
For the six weeks to January 14 gross margin at Woolworths rose 0.4 percentage points .
Strong performances in toys , stationery and computer games kept the underlying sales fall to 0.8 per cent .
This was considerably better than many analysts had expected , with Tony Shiret at Credit Suisse forecasting a fall of up to 3 per cent .
For the year to date , total sales are down 4.1 per cent and for the year to January 29 gross margins are likely to be slightly ahead of last year .
The company said full-year pre-tax profit would be at the upper end of forecasts , currently between Pounds 50m and Pounds 60m .
Mr Bish-Jones said : " It was a pretty difficultChristmas out there but our margin was up and sales held up pretty well .
I think if you compare us with the rest of the retail pack we are pretty well in the middle . "
But as for the outlook , Mr Bish-Jones was downbeat .
" The downturn is likely to last at least 12 more months and we will plan for that . "
Woolworths also gave details of another IFRS adjustment on property leases .
About Pounds 17m is coming off profit before exceptional items and amortisation in 2005-06 , which was much larger than expected .
Richard Ratner , analyst at Seymour Pierce , said : " It 's a case of management good ; company bad , " adding that persistent takeover talk would help support the shares above 30p .
Shares in Woolworths closed down 4 1/2p at 32 1/4p yesterday , or more than 12 per cent , giving the retailer a market value of Pounds 470m .
