Balancing Barclays LOMBARD - ANDREW HILL
Barclays yesterday showed off Frits Seegers , whom analysts have dubbed its new " gorilla " in the boardroom .
The former Citigroup executive , hired on an Pounds 11.7m package as head of global retail and commercial banking , comes with a fearsome reputation .
He is viewed as a counterbalance on the board to the growing influence of Bob Diamond , the bank 's president .
Earnings growth at Barclays certainly looks increasingly lopsided .
Bob Diamond 's empire - Barclays Capital , Barclays Global Investors and wealth management - reported another stellar first-half performance , with Barcap raising profits by 66 per cent .
Mr Diamond 's operations now account for 45 per cent of bank profits .
But with Barclays increasingly reliant on cyclical investment banking revenues , investors will want to see some growth in the UK bank .
Profits at the retail bank rose 12 per cent to Pounds 612m .
However , problems remain .
Net new mortgage lending was negative in the first quarter .
At Barclaycard , profits fell 14 per cent to Pounds 297m due to rising bad debts .
Yesterday Mr Seegers said he agreed with the existing strategy devised by Deanna Oppenheimer , still head of retail banking , to revive the UK business .
But increasingly it looks as though Mr Seegers has been hired to do a much bigger job - which includes identifying suitable growth opportunities and acquisitions , perhaps overseas .
That would be putting the cart before the horse .
The performance of the UK bank , disproportionately important to investors , helps drive the group 's share rating ; the rating determines whether such deals can be done .
Barclays has been the worst-performing UK bank stock over the past three months .
Its shares trade at a price of 8.8 times forecast earnings for 2008 .
That is still a slight premium to the sector , but the relatively poor recent performance partly reflects fears that Barclays may make a big acquisition that could destroy value .
The more Mr Seegers learns about the job , the trickier it must seem .
