Banking setbacks overshadow Tesco profit
General retailers
Tesco revealed that its push into financial services had suffered twin setbacks on Wednesday , casting a shadow over a 12 per cent increase in first-half profit achieved in the face of tough UK trading conditions .
The retailer took a pound(s)57m ( $88m ) charge to cover alleged mis-selling of payment protection insurance , a controversial form of loan cover that has become an industry-wide scandal .
Philip Clarke , chief executive , also said a small number of customers of Tesco Bank had not been able to access their savings accounts for a few days in June due to a technical glitch .
" It was very regrettable , " Mr Clarke said .
Following the problem , Tesco said it would take longer to complete the introduction of technical systems and would also delay the roll-out of new financial products .
Clive Black and Darren Shirley , analysts at Shore Capital , said the " unwelcome surprises " at the banking arm undermined good news elsewhere in the results , saying UK profits and Asian performance had been better than expected .
Pre-tax profit from continuing operations in the 26 weeks to August 27 was pound(s)1.88bn , up 12 per cent from a year earlier .
Sales rose 8 per cent to pound(s)31.8bn.
Trading profit at Tesco 's UK supermarket arm - by far the biggest part of the group - rose 5 per cent to pound(s)1.27bn on sales that rose 6 per cent to pound(s)21.2bn.
However , when new stores were stripped out , sales were down 0.5 per cent for the half , excluding petrol sales and sales tax fluctuations .
This like-for-like sales decline accelerated over the period , hitting 0.9 per cent in the second quarter after a drop of 0.1 per cent in the first quarter .
Sales of " non-food " items such as electrical goods were particularly weak .
Mr Clarke cited high petrol prices as a " pernicious " pressure on UK households .
Tesco announced a pound(s)500m price-cutting campaign last month in a bid to revitalise its UK business .
The retailer said the discounts would mean its UK profits would be broadly flat in the second half .
Trading profit rose 19 per cent year on year to pound(s)292m in Asia - aided by strong growth in China and Thailand - and increased 12 per cent to pound(s)237m in continental Europe .
The loss at Tesco 's Fresh & Easy arm in the US eased 23 per cent to pound(s)73m .
The trading profit posted by Tesco 's banking arm fell 66 per cent year on year to pound(s)44m after the pound(s)57m PPI charge , which was in addition to a previous pound(s)35m provision .
The delay to the systems migration and product launches meant Tesco Bank 's trading profit in the second half would be pound(s)40m less than it had been targeting , the company said .
Diluted earnings per share rose 14 per cent to 17.9p , while an interim dividend of 4.63p per share has been declared , up 6 per cent .
www.ft.com / lex
Credit : By Adam Jones in London
