Banks start to feel the strain of consumer debt Bad debt provisions may have to be raised as HSBC follows Barclays in highlighting a rise in the number of bad loans , writes Jane Croft
Yesterday , HSBC became the second bank in as many days to warn of a " marked " increase in UK consumer bad debts .
The move came after Barclays , the UK 's third-largest bank , warned that it had seen a " significant " rise in bad debt losses at its credit card business in the first quarter .
With consumer borrowing at record highs and individual insolvencies running 44 per cent above their previous peak in the early 1990s , it was only a question of when the growing strain on over-indebted consumers would start to spill over into the banking sector in the form of higher bad debt provisions .
Fuelled by low interest rates and unemployment , total lending to individuals has more than doubled since 1997 to more than Pounds 1,000bn .
The ratio of personal borrowing to income doubled between 1995 and 2003 and the average level of outstanding consumer credit increased from Pounds 2,088 in 1995 to Pounds 6,464 in 2003 .
Deutsche Bank says UK non-mortgage lending accounts for 20 per cent of household debt with about two-thirds of this in personal loans and a third in credit cards .
The high street banks argue they have become better at lending and identifying which customers will default on loans .
They have deployed computer screening techniques and behavioural modelling to design loans for consumers who would once have been deemed too risky .
This appeared to have paid off .
Arrears have been low and the UK banks reported combined profit of Pounds 30bn last year partly from increased sales of mortgages , credit cards and loans .
However , even though unemployment remains low , this week 's statements by Barclays and HSBC show that some UK consumers have overstretched themselves .
There have already been some high-profile tragedies , such as that of Stephen Lewis , a father-of-two who killed himself after running up Pounds 70,000 of debt on 19 credit cards .
The Treasury select committee recently found that 178 consumers attending one debt advice charity had more than 16 credit cards and 815 people owed more than Pounds 100,000 each .
About 2,322 people had debts of more than five times their annual income .
Nick Lord , analyst at Deutsche Bank , says : " There is no doubt that consumers who have become overstretched are suddenly finding it more difficult to meet their borrowing commitments . "
Naguib Kheraj , Barclays finance director , pointed out this week that some consumers were already feeling the strain from five successive interest rate rises in 18 months .
He blamed a number of factors , including higher levels of consumer debt as well as higher utility and council tax bills .
As a result , headline profit in UK retail banking will be lower than last year .
" None of these changes are dramatic but , with higher levels of indebtedness , there is more sensitivity to small changes in household cash flow , " Mr Kheraj said .
Analysts are most worried about bad debts rising at banks that have been aggressively growing unsecured loans and credit cards such as HBOS , Lloyds TSB , Royal Bank of Scotland and Egg .
Bank of England figures show that Pounds 54bn of debt is now owed on credit cards .
But bad debts are growing : banks wrote off Pounds 1.6bn of credit card debts in 2004 against Pounds 1bn in 2002 .
Jonathan Pierce , banks analyst at CSFB , expects arrears levels to be higher on mortgages and unsecured credit when banks report their first half figures in August .
" Mortgage arrears tend to worry the general market observer and can have an impact on share prices .
Unsecured arrears tend to hit profits .
This is the area we are most concerned about . "
For the moment , mortgage arrears remain low : only 6,320 houses were repossessed last year compared with 78,000 in 1991 .
But the number of people in arrears is rising for the first time since 1998 .
The latest figures show that nearly 54,000 households are three to six months in arrears , a rise of 5,000 on a year ago .
