Banks trail FTSE amid concern over Barclays cash call
london
The FTSE 100 edged back towards its best level in more than a year yesterday , but banks lagged behind .
Barclays was among the sharpest fallers after its house broker voiced concerns about a potential cash call .
Jonathan Pierce , Credit Suisse analyst , said Barclays could need to raise pound(s)17bn over the next three years to meet new capital requirements .
Under the current proposals Barclays ' equity tier one capital ratio - a key measure of balance sheet strength - would fall from 9.6 per cent currently to about 5 per cent , Credit Suisse forecast .
Mr Pierce said : " By selling 50 per cent of its BlackRock stake , and capping growth and dividends , we think the bank can manage this internally .
" Managing capital internally might , though , be sub-optimal given the growth opportunities , and we would not rule out an equity issue at some point . "
Barclays closed down 1.8 per cent to 312p , matching a weak trend among its peers following mixed results from Citigroup .
Lloyds Banking Group was the sharpest Footsie faller , off 2.6 per cent to 57p .
HSBC edged 0.1 per cent lower at 698 1/4 p following a downgrade to " underperform " from Exane BNP Paribas .
Exane argued that , while HSBC was likely to outperform only in a double-dip recession , the domestic banks would benefit from any speed of recovery either through a rebound in economic growth or continued low interest rates .
Drugs stocks helped the wider market trend , with the FTSE 100 reversing an initial decline to end up 18.75 points , or 0.3 per cent higher at 5,513.14.
That put the index within 25 points of its recent high .
The drugmakers found support after opinion polls suggested the Democrats could lose their key majority in the US Senate , which would make it harder for Barack Obama to pass a healthcare reform bill .
GlaxoSmithKline gained 1.9 per cent at pound(s)12.84 1/2 and AstraZeneca closed higher by 1.7 per cent at pound(s)30.67 1/2 .
Rexam was up 3.4 per cent to 303 1/4 p after Merrill Lynch restarted coverage with a " buy " rating and 380p target price for the packaging maker .
Investors are being paid a 4 per cent dividend yield while they wait for Graham Chipchase , the new Rexam chief executive , to improve execution and cashflow , it said .
Merrill research also helped buoy Vodafone , up 1.3 per cent to 137 1/4 p.
The broker argued that concerns over infrastructure upgrade costs had been exaggerated .
Legal & General was weakest among the insurers , slipping 1.1 per cent to 83 1/4 p after it was cut from Goldman Sachs ' preferred stocks list .
Goldman favoured Prudential , down 0.2 per cent at 613 1/2 p.
Upgrading the stock to " buy " , Goldman argued that a pick-up in Asian mergers and flotations this year would help provide a benchmark to value Prudential 's growth businesses in Indonesia , India and Vietnam .
Burberry led the blue-chip risers , up 8.3 per cent to 649p , after its Christmas quarter sales and earnings growth beat expectations .
JPMorgan said : " All luxury goods companies that have reported holiday sales to date have surprised on the upside " .
Cadbury ended 3.6 per cent up at 836 1/2 p as traders wrote off the chance of a counter-bid to Kraft 's recommended offer worth 850p .
Shares in International Power rallied 0.7 per cent to 313 1/4 p , having dropped sharply on Monday after it said talks with GDF-Suez over an asset swap had broken down .
Analysts highlighted that GDF had not been bound by Takeover Panel restrictions , so could make a fresh approach at any time .
Among the fallers , SABMiller slid 2.3 per cent to pound(s)17.79 after quarterly beer sales disappointed , largely on cold weather in China .
Tullow Oil drifted from a record high , slipping 0.3 per cent to pound(s)13.65 following Monday 's move to buy Heritage Oil 's Ugandan assets .
However , the fall was limited by talk that the group could upgrade reserve estimates this week .
Traders also noted speculative interest in SThree , with the recruitment agency ending higher by 2.2 per cent to 314 1/4 p.
Promotion hopes aid Arm Holdings
Arm Holdings was up 0.8 per cent to 188 1/2 p amid hopes the semiconductor designer might replace Cadbury in the FTSE 100 .
The takeover of Cadbury could be completed by mid-February and Arm is currently in pole position to take its place in the Footsie .
Promotion would create demand from tracker funds for about 25.6m Arm shares , equivalent to more than four days ' average volume , analysts said .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
