Barclays threatens weak start to earnings season as FTSE 100 stalls
Barclays was out of favour on concerns that it might kick off bank earnings season on a downbeat note .
Ahead of full-year results due on Friday , Barclays drifted 2.5 per cent to 231 1/2 p.
A poor performance for Barclays Capital , the cost of the UK bank levy and the likely non-recurrence of a hedging gain seen in the previous quarter meant profit forecasts were too high , Merrill Lynch said .
" While expectations are low , we are concerned they are not low enough , " said the broker .
" We would be cautious into numbers . "
Barclays ' problems were serious enough to warrant another strategy review , said JPMorgan Cazenove .
BarCap would have missed targets consistently since 2010 and , given the changing outlook for UK interest rates and gross domestic product , further action would be needed to match costs to revenue , it said .
Cutting costs and risk-weighted assets by about 8 per cent and pound(s)30bn respectively would put BarCap on track to meet targets .
The wider market stalled at its highest level since July , with the FTSE 100 ending 0.2 per cent , or 8.87 points , lower at 5,892.20.
Cairn Energy was up 5.5 per cent to 345p , accounting for a stock consolidation , after the shares started trading without rights to a 160p-apiece capital return .
Morgan Stanley , repeating a 420p target , said Cairn could partner Statoil in Greenland to gain access to cheaper rigs .
On the group 's drilling campaign so far , the house broker added : " Cairn 's wells encountered all the ingredients for success , just not all in the same place . "
Tate & Lyle took on 1 per cent to 687 1/2 p awaiting an update on US sweetener pricing .
" While the market is anticipating a positive outcome , we believe the reversal of the prior year drag from lower toll rates could provide further upside for 2012 profits , " said Investec Securities .
Drugmaker Shire also attracted interest , up 0.9 per cent to pound(s)21.29.
Vague bid speculation was doing the rounds , as was a rumour that earnings due on Thursday would impress .
Ahead of its results on Thursday , Vodafone took on 1.6 per cent to 177 3/4 p , helped by recommendations from JPMorgan Cazenove and Merrill Lynch .
Merrill saw Vodafone 's dividend as secure and played down concerns about price deflation , arguing that pricing remained firm in the US market , which provides about half of Vodafone 's earnings .
Randgold Resources was the biggest gainer among the mining stocks , up 2.2 per cent to pound(s)75.65 , after doubling its 2011 dividend and beating forecasts with fourth-quarter earnings .
Among the fallers , Glencore International and Xstrata were weak in response to reports that the former would offer a slim premium of 2.8 shares to buy the latter .
Glencore retreated 4.5 per cent to 460 3/4 p and Xstrata was down 1.7 per cent to pound(s)12.62.
Coal miner Bumi dropped a further 6.5 per cent to 795p following Friday 's news that its biggest shareholders were seeking to remove Nat Rothschild and other directors .
" A prolonged corporate governance dispute could frustrate the group 's growth and refinancing goals , " said Nomura Securities , which downgraded Bumi to " neutral " .
Petropavlovsk , the Russian gold miner , faded 4.5 per cent to 772p after Renaissance Capital highlighted concerns about the cost of its mine development plan .
Polymetal had suffered capital expenditure overruns on a similar project and , if combined with a weak gold price , Petropavlovsk 's net debt could be pushed to 2.5 times operating profit , said RenCap .
" A debt burden of that size in a stressed scenario would leave virtually zero residual value for equity holders , and debt payments would continue beyond the current mine lives of existing projects , " it said .
Hays , the subject last week of vague bid talk , fell 3.2 per cent to 83p after Seymour Pierce added the staffer to its " sell " list .
Fashion retailer SuperGroup was 6.2 per cent higher at 703p on the back of an upgrade to " buy " from Oriel Securities .
It welcomed subtler branding in the 2012 collection - " the sandwich board effect put people off " - and speculated that management might cut a long-standing target of opening 150 UK stores .
Among small caps , French Connection dropped a further 12.1 per cent to 51p in response to a profit warning from the clothes retailer late on Friday .
Biggest movers , Page 27 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder
