Barclays sheds 5 % despite gains
Shares in Barclays , the UK 's second largest bank by market capitalisation , fell 5 per cent yesterday in spite of healthy profits for the third quarter , an improved assessment of the outlook for loan losses and the reinstatement of a dividend after almost a year .
Analysts said the decline was a reaction to the one-third quarter-on-quarter fall in investment banking revenues to pound(s)3.7bn ( $6.1bn ) , although the Barclays Capital business , which was beefed up significantly over the past year through the acquisition of the US operations of Lehman Brothers , contributed a third of group profits .
Huw van Steenis , analyst at Morgan Stanley , said : " BarCap had a strong start to the year but revenue has now fallen more sharply than at its peers , who were down by an average of just 4 per cent .
What everyone is wondering now is what a good investment bank will make in 2010 . "
Regulatory reforms which will require banks to hold greater amounts of capital are set to restrict profits in future , particularly in riskier areas of investment banking .
Chris Lucas , Barclays finance director , said yesterday that its 8.9 per cent core tier one capital ratio - the key measure of capital strength - would be closer to 8.2 or 8.3 per cent once the regulatory demands were factored in .
Barclays said pre-tax profits for the three months to the end of September were pound(s)1.56bn , compared with pound(s)1.61bn in the second quarter and pound(s)2.8bn a year ago .
BarCap generated pound(s)568m of the total .
That result was aided by shifting the burden of $12bn of legacy assets in the so-called Protium unit off the balance sheet to former staff .
However , it suffered a pound(s)405m loss on its own debt , using the fair value measure .
It also became less efficient , with the cost-income ratio rising from 75 per cent in the first half of the year to about 85 per cent , reflecting in large part the aggressive expansion of the equities operation in Europe .
The group said it was too early to say how large the bonus payments would be for BarCap staff , dodging one of the most contentious issues facing banks .
Barclays is to pay a 1 pence per share dividend , the first since the final dividend of 2008 was passed , from earnings of 7.8p.
Mr Lucas said the pay-out ratio would be higher in future but would remain substantially below the 50 per cent ratio that Barclays has traditionally distributed .
" It 's very clear we want to be prudent in terms of the ratio , " he said .
In another sign of improving confidence , management said impairments on the troubled loans that sit on the bank 's books would likely peak in the first quarter of next year , rather than towards the middle of the year as previously expected .
For the overall group , the nine-month annualised loan loss rate was 136 basis points compared with 144bp for the first half of the year .
But Mr Lucas warned that for the full year , the total figure would be closer to pound(s)9bn than the previously guided range of up to pound(s)9.6bn.
Credit : By Patrick Jenkins , Banking Editor
