Barclays rules out acquisitions
Barclays yesterday ruled out rushing into cross-border acquisitions as the UK 's third-largest bank said it would rely mostly on organic growth to expand outside its home market .
John Varley , chief executive , dismissed suggestions that the recent string of acquisitions by European rivals put pressure on Barclays .
" We have growth opportunities , " he said .
" I see what our competitors do and feel no obligation to emulate them at all . "
Europe 's banking industry has been gripped by take-over fever after the recent acquisition of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro , the Italian lender , by BNP Paribas of France .
The deal - which was well received by investors - has prompted speculation that Europe 's other banks will snap up smaller foreign rivals in an attempt to keep up .
But Mr Varley stressed the pursuit of size was not an end in itself .
" We have to be ruthlessly realistic with ourselves as to where we can compete , " he said .
Mr Varley has indicated that he wants to increase the proportion of Barclays ' earnings generated outside the UK to at least 50 per cent of the total , from around 40 per cent in 2005 .
Yesterday , the bank stressed it could achieve that goal in the next three years through organic growth alone .
Both Barclays Capital , its fast-expanding investment banking arm , and Barclays Global Investors , its asset management business , now generate about 70 per cent of their profits outside the UK .
International earnings will also grow in 2006 through the inclusion of a full 12 months ' profits from Absa , the South African bank Barclays bought last year .
Barclays yesterday reported pre-tax profits of Pounds 5.28bn for 2005 , an increase of 15 per cent over the previous year , as growth at Barcap and BGI compensated for lower profits at its Barclaycard credit card division and sluggish growth at Barclays ' UK retail bank .
Absa unveiled a 21 per cent rise in profit for the nine months to December 31 as a healthy economy and low interest rates boosted customer numbers .
