Barclays ' fine makes further penalties likely
Investment advice ; Description of funds is at the heart of sales failings .
Alice Ross reports
The record fine imposed on Barclays this week is not expected to be the last for the industry , as the market downturn of 2008-09 has revealed that many private investors did not realise the risks attached to funds they were sold .
Barclays was fined for faults in its investment advice after the Financial Services Authority ( FSA ) uncovered " serious failings " in its sales processes .
Its in-house sales advisers did not make sure that the funds were suitable for its customers - many of whom were retired or approaching retirement .
But the fine , the biggest so far , is not the first to emerge from the wake of the credit crunch .
While Barclays was not accused of misselling funds - a more serious charge that involves actively misleading consumers rather than failing to inform them - RSM Tenon was fined by the FSA last year for misselling structured products , while Keydata was put into administration by the FSA in 2009 after misselling funds .
Fiona Fry , a regulatory partner at KPMG , said she was seeing more investigations around sales and complaints about products , meaning that the Barclays fine was " likely to be followed by more fines for other organisations " .
Some advisers and fund managers believe that part of the problem in explaining risks to investors lies in the name of the product .
Adrian Lowcock at financial advisory group Bestinvest said : " Cautious may well mean something entirely different to two people , so one investor may find a cautious fund appropriate while another sees it as too risky . "
The FSA is aware of the problem of how funds are named and the Investment Management Association is conducting a review of some of its sectors .
However , others believe the problem lies more in the way advice is given .
Banks frequently sell investment products , often from insurance companies , in their branches through " tied " advisers - who do not advise on the whole market but instead just sell a limited range of products .
An upcoming ban on allowing financial advisers to take commission is not expected to change this model .
While bank advisers will have to make their charges clear to consumers , Patrick Connolly of AWD Chase de Vere warned that " there is a risk that many typical bank and building society customers may not be not be financially knowledge-able , may not shop around and may not understand if they are getting a competitive deal " .
But banks will have to ensure that their advisers understand the products they are selling , which could lessen the problem that the name of the fund could mislead the investor .
" If funds are being sold properly , then the description is actually less important - as the adviser would understand the fund correctly and advise clients appropriately , " said Danny Cox , head of financial advice at Hargreaves Lansdown .
Serious Money , Page 6
