Barclays seeks legal advice
banks
Barclays has sought legal advice over whether it can mount a challenge to a move this year by Mauser , Dubai International Capital 's German packaging business , to buy back its debt .
The bank could set a precedent for challenges to other such balance sheet fixes that have become increasingly common over the past year as borrowers take advantage of unprecedented falls in loan prices to buy back debt .
These fixes have angered many lenders as they object to the use of company money to buy back debt at a time when liquidity is sparse or to shareholders drip-feeding cash into portfolio companies to keep them within covenants without having to put up funds to pay down debt or enter into debt restructuring negotiations .
Mauser has used EUR25m ( $36.5m ) in funds from its shareholder , DIC , to cure an expected covenant breach in the first quarter of 2009 .
This so-called " equity cure " , permitted in the loan documentation , allows a company to count equity injections towards the calculation of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation , lowering leverage and keeping it within its financial covenants .
The company used funds to buy back debt at a discount this year , reducing its leverage .
But some lenders objected to the company 's inclusion of the gains from the discount in the price of the debt to face value in its earnings calculations , in addition to the equity injection itself .
" We would rather see more money coming into the business or have a restructuring discussion , " one lender told Mauser .
Motivated by these concerns , Barclays , the agent for the loan financing , sought legal counsel on the matter , who gave the opinion that the gains should not have been included , said one of the lenders .
A Mauser official confirmed the move by Barclays but said that the company had a different opinion , that it had been advised it was correct to use the gains in the earnings calculation and it is now seeking a second legal opinion .
Moreover , the official said that , regardless of the inclusion of the gain to ebitda , Mauser would not have breached covenants in quarters two to four after the equity injection .
European companies have bought back more than EUR1bn of their debt this year , according to S&P LCD . EndemolKlockner Pentaplast
Credit : By Anousha Sakoui in London
