Barclays ' SA stake poised for expansion
BANKS ; Radical overhaul of African operations
Barclays is planning a radical overhaul of its African retail banking businesses that could lead to it taking a significantly larger stake in Absa , the South African lender it already controls .
The bank , which paid $4.5bn for a majority stake in Absa in 2005 , is proposing to merge most of its own-branded African operations into the Johannesburg-based group .
The move would help fulfil Barclays ' ambition to more closely align Absa with operations elsewhere .
Barclays said it was in discussions to wrap its subsidiaries in Ghana , Tanzania , Uganda , Zambia and the Indian Ocean into Absa .
Its majority stakes in businesses in Kenya and Botswana would also be included , but retain their listings in each country .
If the merger succeeds , Barclays is expected to receive payment in cash or shares from Absa to reflect the fact that it would essentially be handing over its own-branded businesses .
Bob Diamond , the former chief executive , had indicated that the bank would like to increase its stake in Absa to about 75 per cent .
Barclays is unlikely to be able to take full control as local laws protect the rights of minority investors .
It is also likely to retain the Barclays brand outside South Africa , having made a significant investment into the business in recent years .
The bank cautioned that discussions were at an early stage with no certainty they would lead to an integration .
If an agreement was reached , any merger would not complete until 2013 .
Barclays makes 5-10 per cent of its pre-tax profits from the African retail market and Mr Diamond had highlighted the region as a crucial area for growth .
Absa had a sharp fall in profits in the first half of this year following a jump in credit impairments on South African mortgages and adverse currency movements .
In June it issued a profit warning highlighting a rise in bad debt charges .
One banking analyst suggested the move to restructure the business was a " smoke and mirrors exercise aimed at hiding the large loan losses in Absa " .
But Maria Ramos , chief executive of Absa Group and Barclays Africa , said it was the " next logical step " in delivering the " One Africa " strategy announced last year .
Barclays shares rose 2.2 per cent to 197p .
" We have already consolidated the regional offices for Absa Africa and Barclays Africa , as well as introduced a global product strategy for banking across the continent , " she said .
" This proposed combination of the businesses will mirror the managerial and operational structure we have already put in place . "
Credit : By Sharlene Goff and Adam Jones in London
