Barclays to sell FirstCaribbean
Barclays is in talks to sell its 43.7 per cent stake in FirstCaribbean International Bank for Dollars 1.08bn ( Pounds 624m ) .
The bank plans to dispose of its stake in one of the biggest financial institutions in the English-speaking Caribbean to Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , its partner in the joint venture .
The Caribbean bank was formed in 2002 through the merger of CIBC 's and Barclays ' Caribbean interests .
The bank is quoted on four local bourses including Barbados and Jamaica .
The FirstCaribbean bank has assets of about Dollars 9.6bn , approximately 100 branches and employs 3,400 people in 17 countries .
Barclays , which last year made a significant acquisition in South Africa , said it was selling because the Caribbean was no longer a strategic area .
It is seen as a good time to sell because all the cost savings between Barclays and CIBC have already been taken out .
Barclays has owned assets in the Caribbean since 1925 when its international operations were created from the merger of three banks .
These were the Anglo Egyptian Bank , Barclays National Bank of South Africa and Colonial Bank .
The Caribbean assets came with Colonial Bank .
Barclays will book a Pounds 275m net exceptional gain from the sale in its 2006 accounts .
The disposal will also improve its tier one capital ratio - a measure of financial strength - by 12 basis points to 7.12 per cent .
Shares in Barclays yesterday rose 7 1/2p to close at 668p .
The acquisition would give CIBC control of FirstCaribbean with a stake of 87.4 per cent .
The remaining 12.6 per cent is publicly held .
The deal takes place at a price of Dollars 1.62 per FirstCaribbean share , with a total transaction value of Dollars 1.08bn representing a multiple of 17.5 times FirstCaribbean 's operating earnings for the year ended October 31 .
Naguib Kheraj , Barclays ' finance director , said : " With the integration of the businesses complete , Barclays and CIBC both believe that the future strategy of FirstCaribbean is best pursued with one controlling shareholder . "
