Barclays defends core capital ratio
Barclays struck a defiant tone , arguing it had suffered less damage than some rival banks from the turmoil in the credit markets and did not need to boost its capital reserves significantly .
Barclays executives yesterday said the bank was keeping all options open with regard to bolstering its capital ratios as it revealed it had written down the value of debt securities on its balance sheet by Pounds 1.7bn.
However , the bank said it was standing by its previous target of a 5.25 per cent core Tier 1 capital ratio - a key measure of balance sheet strength .
Analysts and investors view the ratio as low when compared with rivals such as Royal Bank of Scotland , which recently raised its target ratio to 6 per cent .
Barclays ' core Tier 1 ratio at the end of March was 5.1 per cent and the bank indicated that this was likely to fall further by the end of June .
Chris Lucas , finance director , refused to be drawn on how the bank would rebuild its capital but added : " We would agree that regulators will be over time looking for higher capital ratios and looking for less leverage in institutions .
That will be an industry-wide phenomenon and we will have to be part of that . "
Barclays ' position met with a sceptical response from analysts and investors , who believe the bank will be forced to hold much higher capital reserves .
Last night Moody 's , the credit rating agency , downgraded the outlook for Barclays ' debt and deposit ratings , arguing that further writedowns were possible .
" According to Moody 's stress scenarios , the size and characteristics of some of ( Barclays ' ) structured credit product positions could result in further impairments or writedowns , " the agency said .
Barclays defended the level of writedowns , which are significantly lower than those taken by other banks with significant investment banking operations .
After including a Pounds 700m benefit from the revaluation of the bank 's own debt , Barclays Capital , Barclays ' investment banking arm , was profitable in the first quarter .
Shares in Barclays closed down 8 1/2p at 418 3/4p .
