Barclays performs U-turn over Protium
BANKS
Barclays is buying back a troublesome $9.3bn portfolio of assets , codenamed Protium , just a year and a half after it sold it to a fund dominated by former employees in an elaborate accounting manoeuvre designed to make its profits less volatile .
The UK bank detailed the U-turn on Wednesday as it reported a 10 per cent year-on-year increase in underlying profit for the first quarter of 2011 .
Its shares responded by falling 4 per cent to 289.65p by the close in London .
Analysts said the Protium affair - and the obscurity surrounding it - had damaged Barclays ' reputation , but said the more concerning news was on the outlook for earnings .
Whereas Barclays had previously said it was comfortable with analysts ' consensus expectations for pound(s)7bn of annual profit this year , on Wednesday management said that number , while still correct , did not include an estimated pound(s)400m hit from the UK bank levy .
" Effectively that is a 6 per cent downgrade , " said Simon Maughan , analyst at MF Global .
Analysts said the bank 's 8.1 per cent return on equity number for the three months to March had been flattered by the non-inclusion of the levy hit and a pound(s)190m write-up of the value of Protium assets .
Analysts questioned the justification for the write-up , given that indices relating to underlying credit market assets fell in the first three months of the year .
Barclays is taking back full ownership of the Protium assets from a spun-off entity , called C12 , created in September 2009 to wind down the portfolio with the help of a $12.6bn loan from Barclays .
The manoeuvre was designed to protect the bank from losses created by fluctuations in the market value of assets that remained illiquid in the aftermath of the financial crisis , including securities backed by US subprime mortgages .
But a tightening of the rules on how much capital banks need to hold has undermined the attractiveness of this arrangement .
Under the Basel III regulations agreed last year , banks must hold significantly more capital against loans of this type , negating the capital advantage of the Protium structure .
To accelerate the sell-off of the Protium assets , Barclays said on Wednesday that it would pay $83m to C12 .
It has also agreed to buy out unidentified third party investors in the fund for $270m .
In addition , the duration of the loan to Protium will be shortened and $750m of the proceeds from the loan redemption will be invested into another C12 fund called Helix .
Barclays said no gain or loss was expected on the complex transaction .
Barclays made a pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.66bn during the January to March period , down 9 per cent on the same period a year earlier .
Stripping out the effect of acquisitions , disposals and fluctuations in the value of its own debt , adjusted pre-tax profit was pound(s)2bn , up 10 per cent .
But Barclays Capital , the investment banking business and engine of the group 's profitability , disappointed , with underlying pre-tax profit slipping from pound(s)1.57bn to pound(s)1.33bn.
Additional reporting by Sam Jones in London
See Lex and Accountancy
Credit : By Adam Jones and Patrick Jenkins in London
