Barclays counts cost of proposed ICB banking sector reforms
LONDON
Barclays was among the biggest fallers in the FTSE 100 on Monday after Goldman Sachs said UK regulation would put lenders at an international disadvantage .
Rules proposed by the Independent Commission on Banking will cost the industry around pound(s)9.6bn a year to implement , Goldman said .
This " could more than double the cost of post-crisis regulatory reform , " said the broker .
The commission 's estimate of costs of between pound(s)4bn and pound(s)7bn did not include the effect on funding of building a loss absorption buffer , in which losses have to fall on creditors in future bank insolvencies , Goldman argued .
" Barclays is most exposed to ICB reforms , " Goldman said .
" We believe the combination of reduced returns and a smaller balance sheet could dramatically reduce Barclays ' earnings power . "
Shares in Barclays ended 2.7 per cent weaker at 174p after Goldman cut the stock to " sell " with a 200p target .
The wider market continued to take its lead from sovereign debt trading as the eurozone crisis eclipsed all other stories .
The FTSE 100 lost 26.34 points , or 0.5 per cent , at 5,519.04.
Ahead of results on Thursday , Glencore International fell 2.6 per cent to 428 1/2 p after its closest peer Noble reported its first quarterly loss in 14 years .
Noble posted mark-to-market losses on cotton and carbon credits , two markets where Glencore has little exposure , so analysts saw little direct read-across .
ITV rose 3.3 per cent to 65 3/4 p after its third-quarter results beat expectations , in spite of a weaker outlook for advertising sales .
" This is the first instance of the five-year transformation plan positively impacting earnings , " said BarCap .
Smith & Nephew put on 2.6 per cent to 572 1/2 p , helped by an upgrade from Exane BNP Paribas .
Setting a 700p target , Exane argued that the shares had fallen to an " unjustifiable " discount to US peers given improving earnings visibility .
Smiths Group rose 0.8 per cent to 954 1/2 p on continued speculation that Apax may make a second bid for its medical business .
Smiths shares have fallen 30 per cent since January , when the group rejected Apax 's pound(s)2.45bn bid for the unit .
Having rallied nearly 40 per cent on Friday after directors bought stock , Premier Foods gave back 10.9 per cent to 5 3/4 p.
Sentiment was not helped by news that the group had recalled a curry sauce after two cases of botulism .
UBS , which downgraded Premier to " sell " with a 2p share price target , argued that creditors had moved in front of shareholders in the queue for cash flow .
A valuation with debt of pound(s)1.8bn was too high to compensate for the risk of a debt-forequity swap , it said .
Unsecured lender Provident Financial slid 1.5 per cent to pound(s)10.20 after an investor day gave no new information on funding and set a customer growth target for its Vanquis Bank that some analysts saw as a cut to previous guidance .
" In order to declare the final dividend [ in March 2012 ] and to meet upcoming debt maturities , additional funding must be secured , " said RBC .
Phoenix Group , the buyer of closed life and pension funds , lost 3.3 per cent to 478p as both Morgan Stanley and Berenberg Bank advised caution over the company 's high level of debt .
" While Phoenix continues to execute well , we see higher dividend yields elsewhere with lower risk , " said Morgan Stanley .
Kesa Electricals fell 3.8 per cent to 90p .
Morgan Stanley cut earnings forecasts by 28 per cent , to reflect deteriorating trading in France as well as Kesa 's disposal of Comet .
Talvivaara slid 4.9 per cent to 205 1/2 p on news that Finnish police were investigating whether it had illegally discharged waste water near a nickel mine in the Kainuu region .
Hikma Pharmaceuticals lost 2.7 per cent to 639p after UBS cut earnings forecasts .
As well as taking a more cautious view of revenue growth and margin assumptions for Hikma 's existing businesses , UBS highlighted that Hikma 's recent acquisition of Morocco-based Promopharm was paid for by debt raised in Dubai so would not be eligible for a debt tax shield .
Oil explorer Afren rose 0.8 per cent to 86 1/2 p following reports over the weekend that Iraq 's government had reached an agreement with the Kurdish Regional Government to recognise exploration contracts .
Among small caps , Majestic Wine slid 3.9 per cent to 400p .
A fall in like-for-like sales in October overshadowed interim results that were in line with forecasts .
Biggest movers , Page 31 Small-cap report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
