Barclays ' interest ' boosts ABN EUROPE
Merger speculation lifted European equity markets yesterday after talks between ABN Amro and Barclays heightened expectations of further consolidation in the banking sector .
ABN Amro shares gained 9.7 per cent to Euros 29.94 on reports that Barclays , of the UK , was interested in a " white knight " bid to shield Holland 's biggest bank from activist investors .
ABN has faced mounting pressure from hedge funds to sell off non- core assets as they believe the bank 's restructuring and acquisitive strategy has done little to boost the share price .
A successful merger between the two companies would create a banking group worth about Euros 117bn .
" We have put these two together before , and believe a Barclays approach is absolutely credible , " said Jon Peace at Fox-Pitt , Kelton .
Italian bank Capitalia , whose leading shareholder is ABN , rose 6.5 per cent to Euros 6.64 on speculation it may be involved in any deal .
Dexia , the Belgian-French group , rose 6.7 per cent to Euros 21.88 , while Germany 's Commerzbank added 4.1 per cent to Euros 31.58.
Deutsche Postbank , the German retail bank , gained 2.7 per cent to Euros 61.93 after releasing fourth-quarter profits and guidance for 2007 that pleased the market .
Deutsche Bank , Germany 's biggest financial services group , gained 1.7 per cent to Euros 95.68 after upgrades from Citigroup , from " hold " to " buy " , and Credit Suisse , from " neutral " to " outperform " .
" The shares have fallen too far , " Credit Suisse said , pointing to a 13 per cent decline in the past month .
" We believe the market is overlooking the good news affecting 98 per cent of revenues and worrying aboutthe 2 per cent affected by subprime . "
Thanks largely to the gains in the financial sector , the FTSE Eurofirst 300 rallied 1.4 per cent to 1,475.39.
Tui , the German travel agency , gained 9.6 per cent to Euros 18.10 after announcingit would merge its tour operating business with thatof First Choice Holidays of the UK .
Tui , whose brands include Thomson Holidays and Airtours , will take a 51 per cent stake in the new business called Tui Travel , while First Choice takes the remaining 49 per cent .
" We regard the deal as a sensible reaction to the recent merger of Thomas Cook and MyTravel , " said Frank Skodzik at WestLB .
Kuoni , the Swiss travel company , gained 2.4 per cent to SFr729 after UBS raised its price target on the stock from SFr635 to SFr725 after last week 's announcement of record full-year net profits and proposed dividend of SFr15 a share .
Spanish tobacco group Altadis rose 6.4 per cent to Euros 46.55 as it held out for higher bids after it on Friday rejected a Euros 45- a-share offer from Imperial Tobacco , of the UK .
