Barclays chief ready to increase risk appetite in search of profit
Diamond set target of 13 % ROE by 2013
Bob Diamond has decided Barclays must increase its risk appetite amid internal bank expectations that a key measure of its profitability will stagnate or fall this year .
Barclays ' chief executive is considering increasing the bank 's risk profile to hit profitability targets over the next three years , according to people familiar with the bank 's thinking .
Mr Diamond , who began in his job in January , has set a target of achieving a 13 per cent return on equity by 2013 .
But last year 's return on equity of 7.2 per cent is set to fall below 7 per cent this year in spite of deep cost cuts , according to people close to Barclays .
Analysts had been projecting a steady improvement in profitability .
Barclays is rethinking how much risk the bank should take on , at a time when regulators are urging bankers to be prudent after the financial crisis .
Barclays ' " daily value at risk " metric , which models potential losses on its trading activities , has fallen by a half since the financial crisis .
" One of our challenges is that not enough risk is being taken , " said a person familiar with the chief executive 's thinking .
Deals to acquire credit market assets worth up to $20bn ( pound(s)12.4bn ) were possible , bankers said .
There could be further credit card portfolio deals , similar to last month 's pound(s)2bn acquisition of the Egg business , and the pound(s)130m purchase on Monday of small business balances from MBNA .
It recently emerged that Barclays had been looking at a $17bn deal to acquire assets previously carved out of US insurer AIG , though one person familiar with the portfolio said it was " extremely unlikely " Barclays would proceed with that .
Mr Diamond set new profit targets in February , part of a strategic overhaul that identified a third of the group as insufficiently profitable .
Since then , the outlook for Barclays Capital , the group 's profit driver , has grown worse .
Although performance in January and February had been satisfactory , March had been weaker , bankers said .
Inside Business , Page 22 www.ft.com / bankingpodcast
Credit : By Patrick Jenkins , Banking Editor
