Barclays disappoints with rising credit card bad debt BANKS
Barclays yesterday reported rising bad debt charges in its Barclaycard credit cards business .
The UK 's third-largest high street bank also said operating costs in the third quarter rose across most of its business units as it continued to invest in fast-growing areas .
These included Barclays Capital , its debt-focused investment bank , where 1,000 extra staff have been hired this year .
Barclays expected pre-tax profit for 2005 will be " broadly " in line with market forecasts of Pounds 5.18bn.
However , its shares fell 6 1/2p to 595 1/2p amid disappointment that the trading statement did not trigger profit forecast upgrades .
One banking analyst said : " It was a positive statement but there was a huge weight of expectations on Barclays .
US investment banks have seen record profits in the third quarter and everyone expected that to translate through to Barclays Capital . "
Barclays Capital continued to deliver " very strong profit growth " helped by " unusually " high client activity in the third quarter .
But operating expenses rose broadly in line with income due to increased staffing costs .
Barclaycard also saw a growth in income but this was more than offset by investment in Juniper , its US card operation , and by continued bad debt charges .
Naguib Kheraj , finance director , said rising bad debts had led Barclaycard , which has 11.2m customers , to be more stringent about its lending policies .
The credit card division now rejects 55 per cent of new applications , up from 35 per cent at historic low points in the economic cycle .
Mr Kheraj said : " We have not changed our hurdle rate of return but we have changed our expectation of the average loss so that means we reject more customers . "
He added that there was " not a big increase " in the number of Barclaycard accounts in difficulty but the amounts owed on accounts in difficulty was " higher than expected " .
FT Comment
*The expectation that Barclays would issue a positive trading update has sent shares up 16 per cent over the past six weeks .
The statement fell a little flat , although the bank reported strong growth .
Barclays Capital continues to power ahead and now contributes around a quarter of group profits .
Barclays Global Investors has enjoyed good net new business flows and UK banking continued to improve .
However , group investment continues to act as a drag on profit growth .
This , together with news that Barclaycard has continued to see a growth in bad debts , was enough to bring the shares down .
Barclays trades on a forward p / e of 10 times , against 9 to 10 times for UK banks , which is a slight but deserved premium .
