Barclays faces fresh blow as US energy watchdog eyes $100m fine
The ambition of Barclays ' new chief executive to restore the group 's battered reputation was dealt a fresh blow when it emerged the bank faces a fine of potentially more than $100m over alleged energy market manipulation .
Barclays vowed to " vigorously defend " itself after disclosing it faced a possible fine by the US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission over power trading in the western US from late 2006 to 2008 .
One insider called it a " ludicrously high " figure .
The bank which this summer paid a pound(s)290m fine for manipulating the Libor benchmark interest rate also disclosed it is being investigated by the US Department of Justice and the US Securities and Exchange Commission over whether it breached corruption laws .
The US authorities are investigating whether its relationships with third parties who assist it to win or retain business comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act , the bank said .
Potential liability in FCPA investigations is huge : the largest fine paid to settle FCPA allegations was the $800m paid by Siemens in 2008 .
Antony Jenkins , the chief executive , who came in this summer with a promise to change the bank 's culture by " embedding a refreshed set of values and behaviours " said the first investigation did not imply any " wrongdoing " .
He is trying to rebuild the bank 's reputation after a series of scandals including the manipulation of Libor and the mis-selling of payment protection insurance and interest-rate hedging products for small and medium-sized businesses .
Large provisions to settle mis-selling claims and a charge on the value of its own debt helped drag the bank to a quarterly pre-tax loss of pound(s)47m in the third quarter , down from a profit of pound(s)2.42bn a year earlier .
The Financial Times reported this year that Barclays and four former traders were being investigated for allegedly manipulating the Californian electricity markets .
The regulator alleges that the bank bought and sold electricity in enough volume to move exchange prices to benefit parallel swap positions , according to a notice in April .
FERC , which declined to comment , has this year fined Constellation Energy , a utility company , a record $245m for power market manipulation .
Additional reporting by Adam Jones , Jennifer Thompson and Gregory Meyer
Electricity manipulation , Page 18
Credit : By Daniel Schafer and Caroline Binham in London
