Barclays and RBS take lead amid hopes that worst is factored in
LONDON
Banks extended their recent rally with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland climbing even as the FTSE 100 stalled .
The lenders edged higher amid hopes that distressed valuations across the sector already adequately reflected the worst likely outcome for the eurozone .
" Current valuations discount sizeable sovereign debt haircuts , a severe double-dip recession and across-the-board bank recapitalisations , " Societe Generale said .
" If [ these things ] all happen , then the sector appears fairly valued .
" However , we believe that politicians will eventually put in place the necessary reforms required to unlock the valuation potential available , " added SocGen , which advised clients to be " overweight " in the banks .
" Existing valuations leave significant upside potential if current fears prove overdone , " it said .
A European recession combined with 50 per cent haircuts on Italian and Spanish debt would leave the European banks needing EUR287bn to meet capital requirements , SocGen said .
But if recession was avoided and the haircuts applied only to Greece , Italy and Portugal , the capital shortfall would be EUR36bn , it calculated .
SocGen 's top sector picks included Barclays ( up 2.1 per cent to 175 3/4 p ) , RBS ( 2.8 per cent higher at 25 1/4 p ) , and Lloyds Banking Group ( up 1.6 per cent to 36 1/4 p ) .
The wider market broke a four-day winning streak with the FTSE 100 ending 3.3 points , or 0.1 per cent lower , at 5,395.7.
BAE Systems , the recent subject of break-up speculation , rose 4 per cent to 281p .
Some dealers cited bid hopes with stories circulating that the group had brought in advisers to examine its options .
Analysts have been cautious on theories that BAE could break up voluntarily ; Exane BNP Paribas said such a plan " would be an acknowledgement of the failure of a 10-year global strategy for the group " .
Exane also argued that BAE 's pension deficit effectively precluded the disposal of the US business .
Fellow aerospace engineer Meggitt added 1.6 per cent to 357p after SocGen included it on a list of potential takeover targets .
Fund managers were under pressure with Ashmore losing 2 per cent to 320 3/4 p ahead of a trading update due Thursday .
Deutsche Bank forecast Ashmore would suffer its first quarter-on-quarter decline in assets under management in two years , with the broker cutting its assets estimate by 5 per cent to $63.7bn.
A tough September would make it difficult for Ashmore to achieve year-end targets and would put performance fees under pressure , it added .
Expectations that Europe would propose scrapping sugar quotas helped push Associated British Foods lower by 2.4 per cent to pound(s)10.69.
The EU Commission submits proposals on reforms of the Common Agricultural Policy on Wednesday , although any abolition of quotas would be for 2016 at the earliest , investors said .
British Retail Consortium data showing the sharpest fall in clothing sales in two years sent Marks and Spencer 0.7 per cent lower at 328p .
Fashion retailer SuperGroup lost 2.6 per cent to 695p after Shore Capital started coverage with a " sell " rating .
" SuperGroup , whilst aimed at a seemingly advantageous segment of the affluent youth , is making its product more easily available , which results in a loss of exclusivity and this we fear could be a mistake , " Shore said .
However , Mothercare bounced 9.2 per cent to 210 1/4 p after the retailer parted company with its chief executive less than a week after delivering a profit warning .
Debenhams rose 1.5 per cent to 65 1/4 p on speculation it may launch a share buy-back .
Morgan Stanley raised its rating to " overweight " on hopes of a " Next-style " cash return .
CSR was down 5.8 per cent to 183 1/2 p after Citigroup cut the communications chipmaker to " sell " .
Citi argued that CSR was at a competitive disadvantage to rivals able to offer bundled technologies .
Among small caps , TT Electronics rose 5.6 per cent to 165 3/4 p.
Crystal Amber , the activist investment fund , declared a 3.3 per cent holding shortly before the market closed .
Set-top box maker Harvard International jumped 34.5 per cent to 38 3/4 p on news of a conditional 45p-a-share cash offer from Chengdu Geeya Technology .
Biggest movers , Page 29 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
