BarCap spoiler at the Barclays party
News analysis ; Investor reaction focused on a 31 per cent revenue decline at the investment banking division , writes Patrick Jenkins
Shares in Barclays , the UK 's second-largest bank by market capitalisation , fell 5 per cent yesterday in spite of healthy profits for the third quarter , an improved assessment of the outlook for loan losses and the reinstatement of its dividend after almost a year .
Analysts said the decline was a reaction to the one-third quarter-on-quarter fall in investment banking revenue to pound(s)3.7bn , although the Barclays Capital business , which was beefed up through the acquisition of the US operations of Lehman Brothers , contributed a third of group profits .
Huw van Steenis , analyst at Morgan Stanley , said : " BarCap had a strong start to the year but revenue has now fallen more sharply than at its peers , who were down by an average of just 4 per cent .
What everyone is wondering now is what a good investment bank will make in 2010 . "
Regulatory reforms , which will require banks to hold greater amounts of capital , are set to restrict bank profits in future , particularly in riskier areas of investment banking .
Chris Lucas , Barclays finance director , said yesterday that its 8.9 per cent core tier one capital ratio - the key measure of capital strength - would be closer to 8.2 or 8.3 per cent once the new regulatory demands were factored in .
Barclays said pre-tax profits for the three months to the end of September were pound(s)1.56bn , compared with pound(s)1.61bn in the second quarter and pound(s)2.8bn a year ago .
BarCap generated pound(s)568m of the total .
That was aided by the decision to shift $12bn ( pound(s)7.2bn ) of legacy assets off the balance sheet to Protium , a new business run by former Barclays staff .
However , it suffered a pound(s)405m loss on its own debt , using the fair value measure .
BarCap also became less efficient , with the cost-income ratio rising from 75 per cent in the first half of the year to about 85 per cent , reflecting in large part the aggressive expansion of the group 's equities operation in Europe .
The group said it was too early to say how large the bonus payments would be for BarCap 's employees , dodging one of the most contentious issues facing the world 's banks .
Barclays is to pay a 1p dividend , the first since the final of 2008 was passed , from earnings per share of 7.8p.
Mr Lucas said the payout ratio would be higher in future , but would remain substantially below the 50 per cent that Barclays has traditionally distributed .
" It 's very clear we want to be prudent in terms of the ratio , " he said .
In another sign of improving confidence , management said impairments on the troubled loans that sit on the bank 's books are likely to peak in the first quarter of next year , rather than towards the middle of the year as previously expected .
For the overall group , the nine-month annualised loan loss rate was 136 basis points , against 144 basis points for the first half of the year .
But Mr Lucas warned that the pound(s)1.65bn taken in impairment charges and other credit-related costs in the third quarter , down from pound(s)2.2bn in the second quarter of the year and pound(s)2.3bn in the first quarter , should not be seen as a clear trend .
Impairments were likely to show a seasonal rise in the fourth quarter , he said .
For the full year , the total figure would be closer to pound(s)9bn than the previously guided range of up to pound(s)9.6bn.
Lex , Page 18 www.ft.com / ukview
Credit : By Patrick Jenkins , Banking Editor
