Barclays ' shift from branch advice marks industry sea change
Banks ; News analysis ; A commission ban and rising costs will hit profitability , say Alice Ross and Sharlene Goff
Barclays is to stop offering customers financial advice at its branches , shutting down its financial planning arm and putting 1,000 jobs at risk .
In a sign of the changing landscape for financial advice in the UK , Barclays said the profitability of its financial planning business had been falling over recent years .
The bank entered consultations with employees in Barclays Financial Planning on Wednesday to shut the unit down .
The move will make it the first high street bank to stop offering consumers financial advice ahead of the Financial Services Authority 's ban on commission from 2013 .
This sweeping reform of the financial advice industry , known as the retail distribution review , is expected to ramp up the costs of giving advice and will mean that many mass market consumers will not be able to afford a financial adviser .
Banks are already facing tough new measures from the UK regulator to improve the way consumer products are sold following a string of investment scandals .
These could go as far as banning some retail financial products or imposing caps on the level of fees providers can charge .
But they also face a squeeze from the regulator on their in-house advisers .
As part of the retail distribution review , advisers will have to take exams to be better qualified , incurring training costs .
The big high street banks have long relied on a network of branch-based sales advisers to push financial products such as savings accounts , basic investments such as ISAs and pensions to existing customers .
But while these provided a lucrative source of revenue for the banks when stock markets were rising and saving rates were high , demand from consumers has waned since the financial crisis .
Low-cost products such as stakeholder pensions , which charge lower commissions and are less profitable for advisers , have also contributed to shrinking margins .
Meanwhile , tighter regulation and an explosion of online information have further diminished the attractiveness of in-house financial advisers .
" Activity levels have dropped and regulatory costs have gone up - there is really not a lot of value in these any more , " said one analyst .
Other banks , however , say that they remain committed to their financial advisory businesses .
Santander , which saw investment sales double between 2007 and 2009 to pound(s)3.5bn , and Royal Bank of Scotland are both investing heavily to train their branch-based advisers to the new level required under the retail distribution review .
" We are committed to delivering financial planning and ensuring our staff are fully trained to meet the changing needs of our customers , " said RBS .
But many fear the move away from commission is likely to create an " advice gap " in the UK , with less affluent consumers likely to be unable to afford financial advice .
They are expected to turn to online " execution-only " services .
Both banks and financial advice groups such as Hargreaves Lansdown are hoping to profit from this move .
Barclays launched an online service for customers last November , and said it expects this business to grow as customers move online .
Banks are also increasingly siphoning off their richer customers to specialist wealth arms that provide high-end financial advice .
Global assets under management at the wealth operations of HSBC , Barclays , RBS and Lloyds Banking Group grew 35 per cent from $462bn to $624bn between 2004 and 2009 , according to wealth consultants Scorpio Partnership .
Banks are not alone in trying to target more lucrative wealthier customers .
Towry , the wealth manager and financial adviser , last autumn shut down the accounts of 6,000 of its clients who held less than pound(s)100,000 , arguing that giving financial advice below this level was no longer viable commercially .
Barclays said the decision to shut down Barclays Financial Planning was not related to its record pound(s)7.7m fine incurred last week from the FSA , after advisers in the arm did not properly explain the risks of funds they had sold to elderly clients .
Credit : By Alice Ross and Sharlene Goff
