Barclays raises ABN estimates
By IAN BICKERTON and PETER THAL LARSEN
Barclays has indicated that estimates for cost savings and revenue benefits from its planned takeover of ABN Amro were conservative , as a record quarter from its investment banking division helped it report a strong start to the year .
The British bank , which is competing for control of ABN Amro with a consortium led by Royal Bank of Scotland , had previously indicated that the Euros 63bn ( Pounds 43bn ) takeover would deliver Euros 3.5bn in synergies by 2010 .
However , Chris Lucas , Barclays ' new finance director , indicated the bank had been deliberately cautious when calculating the figures .
" We would be working to exceed what we 've announced both in terms of timing and quantum , " he said .
" We wanted to set them at levels we felt we could exceed . "
Mr Lucas suggested the opportunity for boosting revenues was greater than suggested by the Euros 700m figure Barclays had announced .
Barclays is seeking to press ahead with its take-over while investors wait for the RBS-led consortium , which includes Santander of Spain and Fortis , the Belgo-Dutch group , to clarify its rival Euros 71bn bid for ABN Amro .
The consortium , which must offer an update on its plans by this weekend , is thought to have met with resistance from the Dutch Central Bank , which must approve a break- up .
VEB , the Dutch shareholders ' association , yesterday said it had asked the European Commission to investigate whether the Dutch Central Bank was treating both bidders on " a fair and equal footing " .
However , Frits Seegers , who will run ABN Amro 's retail and commercial banking operations if Barclays ' bid succeeds , yesterdaydismissed the consortium 's proposed bid as " just talk " .
Mr Seegers , chief executive of Barclays global retail and commercial banking , told a business conference in Amsterdam : " It is a ghost bid , not a real bid , just a little bit of talk . "
Reassuring businessmen and city council and government representatives , he also said that Amsterdam would be " the heart and soul " of the combined bank 's operations , adding that he had already started house-hunting .
Separately , Barclays said pre-tax profits rose 15 per cent in the first quarter , helped by a record performance from its Barclays Capital investment banking division and proceeds from the sale of some properties .
Excluding the sale-and-leaseback transactions , pre- tax profits rose 10 per cent .
The bank said its UK business had seen some impact from the costs of settling claims from customers seeking repayment of overdraft fees , though these were not material .
The shares closed at 713p , down 6 1/2p .
