Barclays upbeat as it sets out to woo investors
banks
Barclays stepped up a charm offensive to persuade investors that it is in robust health , saying it has benefited from a strong start to the year across the financial industry .
President Bob Diamond dismissed speculation that strong first-quarter results from Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo were a " one-off " as the global credit crunch spreads to the wider economy .
" There 's good news for the whole industry there , " Mr Diamond said in an interview on Bloomberg Television .
" We are reasonably optimistic as we look forward . "
Shares of Barclays rose after the comments , adding to gains in the past week since the bank agreed to sell its iShares exchange-traded fund unit to CVC Capital Partners for $4.4bn.
The stock has recovered almost all of the ground it ceded after losing almost three quarters of its value in two weeks in January .
Goldman reported first-quarter earnings of $1.8bn on Monday , exceeding estimates and adding to a string of rivals from Citigroup in the US to Deutsche Bank in Europe making bullish statements about trading conditions .
JPMorgan Chase said yesterday its investment banking business returned to profitability in the period , also beating expectations .
The biggest banks have benefited from strong fixed-income trading volumes , wider bid-ask spreads and the demise or distraction of competitors .
While most have radically scaled back on proprietary trading , low-risk trading on behalf of clients has boomed at institutions with the balance sheet to facilitate orders .
Even so , some analysts remain sceptical about the sustainability of this year 's earnings , which are flattered by comparison with last year 's aggressive writedowns .
" Investment banks have just had a first quarter that could turn out to be the best quarter of the year , " said Alex Potter , an analyst at Collins Stewart .
Barclays Capital , the securities arm overseen by Mr Diamond , has been building out an international equities and investment banking business since buying the US operations of Lehman Brothers last September .
BarCap accounted for about one fifth of pre-tax profit last year .
Barclays is determined to shore up its balance sheet and avoid turning to the UK government for capital .
Although the Financial Services Authority last month concluded that Barclays had enough capital to endure a severe economic downturn , shareholders have urged the bank to strengthen its buffers .
" Barclays has defied the market to some extent , " said Robert Law , an analyst at Nomura .
" If it can emerge from calling the market 's bluff then management 's reputation will be enhanced .
" It 's still some time to go before we can declare victory on that . "
Credit : By Adrian Cox in London
