Barclays calls for transparency
Accounting rules need reform , executive says ; ' Fair value ' method distorts profit results
Barclays ' finance director has called for an overhaul of " opaque and complex " accounting rules that artificially boosted the profits of big European and US banks by billions of pounds in the third quarter of this year .
In a letter published in today 's Financial Times , Chris Lucas , group finance director , said the requirement for banks to adjust their figures to reflect the market value of their own debt was widely believed to distort their actual profits .
" It makes results difficult to explain to investors and is unhelpful for an industry that wants to rebuild confidence through transparency in financial reporting , " he wrote .
So-called " fair value accounting of own debt " means banks adjust their earnings to reflect the price at which they could buy back their debt in the market .
If their debt is viewed as risky , meaning there is a higher chance of default , it is worth less , so banks could in theory buy it back more cheaply .
Paradoxically , this means that in difficult market conditions , such as those in recent months , banks are able to book large artificial gains in their financial results .
This accounting method was particularly flattering for big banks in the third quarter .
Between them Barclays , HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland benefited from almost pound(s)10bn ( $16bn ) of one-off credit gains in the three months to September , compared with about pound(s)2.7bn of losses in the same period a year earlier .
Five big US investment banks - Citigroup , Bank of America , JPMorgan , Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs - revealed gains equivalent to more than four-fifths of their combined $16bn in net profits for the third quarter .
UBS , the Swiss bank hit by a $2.3bn alleged rogue-trading scandal , reported a net profit after a higher than expected SFr1.77bn ( pound(s)1.22bn ) credit gain bolstered its figures .
Even though banks typically break out the credit gains , analysts said such distortions could still make it harder to assess their underlying performance .
" It is ludicrous that when [ credit ] spreads are widening and banks ' financial position deteriorates , the accounting means they book a profit on their debt , " said one .
Analysts expect credit gains to reverse next year as markets stabilise , leaving banks potentially facing large losses for the comparable period in 2012 .
Not all banks use the fair value method - Standard Chartered said it did not account for swings in the value of its own credit .
Once banks elect to value their debt in this way , they must continue to do so .
Letters , Page 12
Credit : By Sharlene Goff , Retail Banking Correspondent
