Barclays eases debt vehicle fear
Barclays is holding collateral that would limit any potential losses arising from its exposure to troubled debt vehicles created by its investment banking arm , people close to the UK bank said yesterday .
Investors have expressed concern about Barclays ' exposure to four structured investment vehicles , set up by Barclays Capital , that have run into financial trouble as a result of the turmoil in the credit markets .
But people close to the bank said that , even if it was forced to sell all the assets it holds as collateral at current distressed prices , its total loss from the vehicles would be no more than Pounds 75m .
The debt vehicles , known as SIV-lites , have become the latest focus of concern by nervous investors as they search for signs of distress after recent market turmoil .
Several of the vehicles , which rely heavily on short-term commercial paper for funding , have run into trouble in recent weeks amid a broader crisis of confidence among commercial paper investors .
Standard & Poor 's , the credit rating agency , last week slashed its ratings on two SIV-lites created by Barclays Capital and placed two others on review for a possible downgrade .
Concern about Barclays ' exposure arose because the bank provided back-up credit facilities to several SIV-lites .
To date , two SIV-lites have drawn on their back-up lines with Barclays .
Only one is thought to have borrowed a significant sum .
But these facilities are supported by the funds ' assets , most understood to be in the form of securities with AAA or AA credit ratings .
Barclays ' assessment of its potential loss is based on what people close to the bank describe as a conservative " mark-to- market " valuation that assumes the assets had to be sold at current depressed prices .
Concern about the SIV-lite structures was fuelled by the resignation last week of Edward Cahill , head of the Barclays Capital team that set up the vehicles .
People close to the bank say Mr Cahill and his team had no role in selecting assets for the vehicles , which are managed by hedge funds and other banks .
Barclays has also faced scrutiny because in May it set up a SIV- lite vehicle for Sachsen LB , the German public sector bank which was bailed out this month .
It is understood Barclays has not provided any back-up financing to the vehicle , called Sachsen Funding 1 .
Barclays declined to comment .
