Barclays keeps options open on capital ratios
Barclays said yesterday it was keeping all its options open regarding bolstering its capital ratios .
The UK-based bank reported on first-quarter trading without launching a rights issue or announcing other measures to raise fresh equity capital .
At the same time , the lender revealed a further Pounds 1.7bn ( Dollars 3.3bn ) of writedowns on the value of debt securities on its balance sheet .
The group 's shares closed down yesterday 8 1/2p at 418 3/4p .
Chris Lucas , finance director , said : " We 're not going to rule in or rule out any option at this stage . "
But he hinted that some form of capital-raising would come as the group 's core equity Tier 1 ratio was below Barclays ' 5.25 per cent target , at 5.1 per cent .
" We intend in time to be at least in line with our target , " he said .
He added that the UK banking authorities were looking for banks to operate on higher capital ratios .
" It 's an industry-wide phenomenon and we have to be part of that , " he said .
Barclays had regular conversations with the regulators and " they are aware of our plans and intentions " , Mr Lucas said .
However , he did rule out paying shareholders dividends in shares rather than cash as a means of raising equity , as some banks have done .
" In our view , they ( scrip dividends ) are not a dividend . "
The group had traded profitably so far this year despite challenging market conditions , Mr Lucas said .
Even Barclays Capital , the investment banking business , had turned a profit so far in 2008 .
The bank had taken advantage of the absence of some competitors in the mortgage market by mopping up a more than 20 per cent share of new mortgage business being written in the first quarter .
However , Mr Lucas said the group had maintained discipline over lending , with an average loan-to-value on new mortgages of 53 per cent , while its existing loan book was on an average loan-to-value of 34 per cent .
Rich Ricci , chief operating officer of BarCap and Barclays investment management , said that while markets remained fragile there were signs of stabilisation and even some improvement in liquidity .
" The mortgage market in the US seems to be stabilising , " he said , but it remained difficult to predict writedowns .
In the first quarter the group suffered total write-downs of Pounds 1.709bn , of which Pounds 598m reflected the impairment of underlying assets .
Of the total Pounds 495m related to exposures to " ABS CDO Super Senior " assets , with the other Pounds 1.214bn from other credit market exposures .
The bank benefited from a Pounds 703m gain on revaluation of its own notes in the first quarter , but that was followed by a Pounds 469m loss in April .
The group 's leveraged finance loans , such as debt for private equity owned companies including Alliance Boots , were little changed as the group said " the credit performance of the assets remains satisfactory " .
Lex , Page 12
