Barclays tumbles 10.5 % after Moody 's cuts debt rating
london
Banks led the FTSE 100 lower yesterday as optimism over their chances of independence yielded to concern about their balance sheets .
Barclays dropped 10.5 per cent to 94.9p after Moody 's said the lender faced " significant further writedowns " .
Moody 's cut its long-term debt rating on Barclays by two notches .
Credit market exposures and impairments in the UK outweighed its strong franchise and deposit base , the agency said .
Banks rallied sharply last week on hopes that a state " bad bank " would allow them to escape full nationalisation , with Barclays more than doubling on a promise that it will not need to raise more capital .
" The inherently high operating leverage of banks means that credit risk will be a more important driver of bank stock prices in 2009 than capital levels , " said Nomura Securities .
" We expect the bank rallies to be short-lived because the capitalisation of the bad banks in the large economies like the US and UK might still be insufficient to remove all the problem assets and achieve the necessary deleveraging given the worst GDP outlook in 60 years . "
The broker kept a " reduce " rating on Barclays , along with Lloyds , down 2.8 per cent to 88.2p , and Royal Bank of Scotland , off 7.3 per cent to 20.4p.
Nomura also cut HSBC to " neutral " , citing a rapid deterioration in emerging markets led by Central Europe and Russia .
HSBC lost 3 per cent to 527p ,
The FTSE 100 ended 1.7 per cent adrift at 4,077.78 , losing 71.86 points for its third straight decline .
Activity was light as traders were left housebound by London 's heaviest snowfall in nearly two decades .
Turnover through the LSE totalled about 1.6bn shares , compared with a daily average of about 2bn .
Rio Tinto was one of the few blue-chip risers .
The miner rallied 6.6 per cent to pound(s)16.06 after confirming it has held asset sale talks with Chinalco , its biggest shareholder .
" This announcement , along with Friday 's sales of $1.6bn of assets , further diminishes the risk of Rio Tinto coming to the market for cash , " said Cazenove .
Defensive stocks also held steady .
GlaxoSmithKline inched up 0.9 per cent to pound(s)12.30 ahead of results on Thursday , when the drugmaker is expected to announce another round of job cuts .
Icap was down 7 per cent to 219 1/2 p on news it was part of a consortium looking to bid for LCH . Clearnet , Europe 's largest independent clearing house .
Merrill Lynch strategists downgraded the insurance sector to " neutral " .
Legal & General retreated 5.2 per cent to 58.4p , while Prudential slid 5.2 per cent to 316 1/4 p and Friends Provident lost 5.5 per cent to 78p .
" Despite compelling valuation we see life companies as possible value traps due to poor earnings visibility and resulting concerns on dividend resilience and balance sheet strength , " said Merrill .
British Airways lost 3.4 per cent to 116.1p on concerns that Iberia 's biggest shareholder , Caja Madrid , is fighting BA 's attempts to renegotiate their merger .
The chairman of Caja Madrid said that BA was likely to end up with around 55 per cent of the combined group , compared with 65 per cent when the merger was first flagged .
BA is said to want the terms reset to reflect operating metrics rather than share prices .
HSBC set a 140p price target on Wolseley , down 6.6 per cent to 161.3p.
It forecast the plumbing supplies group to breach debt covenants without a hugely dilutive rights issue .
Telecity led the mid-cap risers , up 12.4 per cent to 191p , on strong annual results and upbeat guidance from the data warehouse group .
Management also played down fears that 3i , its 22.6 per cent shareholder , may look to sell its stake .
Paypoint retreated 6.2 per cent to 420p after Numis started coverage with " sell " advice and a 360p target .
The broker saw Paypoint as more operationally geared and vulnerable to the recession than investors believe .
" Almost all recent top-line growth has come from expensive acquisitions and an accounting standard which masks the true level of growth , " Numis said .
" We therefore question whether PayPoint should continue to be valued as a growth company . "
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
