Barclays driven by investment arm
Barclays ' investment bankers contributed the bulk of the group 's first-half profits , as a pound(s)1bn bill for mis-sold loan insurance hampered its efforts to build up the retail business .
Barclays Capital provided pound(s)2.4bn , or more than 90 per cent , of the bank 's pound(s)2.64bn pre-tax profit in the first six months .
First-half profits at the investment banking division fell almost 30 per cent year-on-year , after revenues slipped at its core fixed-income , currency and commodities division .
But a provision in the retail business for payment protection insurance , combined with a costly withdrawal from parts of its European branch network , meant that BarCap still accounted for a larger proportion of overall revenue than a year ago .
Investors have criticised Barclays for its heavy reliance on investment banking , which has traditionally been seen as a riskier business .
While Bob Diamond , chief executive , has privately moved away from previous targets to limit profit contribution from BarCap to a third , he still wants a more even split between retail and investment banking .
He revealed on Tuesday that the bank would cut up to 3,000 jobs this year , most of which are expected to come in the investment banking arm as part of cost-cutting .
So far 1,400 jobs have been eliminated this year .
Overall pre-tax profits fell by a third in the first half , largely owing to the one-off PPI charge .
Like other UK banks Barclays agreed to start refunding customers who were mis-sold PPI as a way to cover loan repayments if they fell ill or lost jobs .
Stripping out the charge as well as accounting issues related to the value of its own debt , pre-tax profit rose 24 per cent to pound(s)3.68bn - of which 63 per cent came from BarCap .
Analysts said that Barclays ' goal of generating a 13 per cent return on equity by 2013 looked ambitious .
In the first half its ROE was 5.9 per cent , although this rose to 9.1 per cent excluding PPI and other charges .
" We think the targets will be a stretch , " said one analyst .
" On our forecasts pre-tax profit would be pound(s)2bn short of where it needs to be in 2013 to meet the target returns . "
Revenue was relatively flat at Barclaycard and at the UK retail business , which along with BarCap are viewed by Mr Diamond as the bank 's three " top tier " businesses .
At Barclays Wealth , hailed by Mr Diamond as a key growth area , pre-tax profits fell 7 per cent as investment in the business wiped out a 12 per cent increase in revenues .
Meanwhile charges related to closing parts of the troubled Spanish business pushed the European operation into a pound(s)161m loss , compared with a pound(s)10m pre-tax profit a year ago .
Lex , Page 12 Lombard , Page 14 Rebuilding drive , Page 15 www.ft.com / bankingpodcast
Credit : By Sharlene Goff , Retail Banking Correspondent
