Barclays in vanguard of consolidation
Barclays said consolidation among European banks was " overdue " and it expected to be at the " forefront " of any activity .
Matt Barrett , chairman , said some European institutions look subscale after recent mergers that have created US super-banks .
He said : " Europe is massively overbanked .
You see the behemoths emerging in the US so . . . wehave to prepare ourselves for this eventuality .
" We would expect to be at the forefront of it , but our fortunes do not depend on when Europe decides to create pan-European institutions . "
John Varley , chief executive , also stressed that Barclays had no need to do acquisitions in the US or Europe as it was already enjoying strong organic growth .
The UK 's third-largest bank yesterday reported a 20 per cent jump in 2004 pre-tax profits to Pounds 4.6bn ( Pounds 3.8bn ) .
This was helped by strong performances from Barclays Global Investors and Barclays Capital , the debt-focused investment bank .
Bad debt provisions fell from Pounds 1.35bn in 2003 to Pounds 1.09bn.
This helped offset a weaker performance from the UK bank where profits fell by 1 per cent to Pounds 1.13bn , partly attributable to weaker mortgage sales and higher costs .
Barclays Capital saw profits rise 25 per cent to Pounds 1.04bn ( Pounds 836m ) , helped by a 41 per cent jump in dealing profits to Pounds 1.5bn.
Barclays shares fell 5p to 593 1/2p amid some disappointment about higher costs and that the improvement in profits was partly a result of lower bad debt provisions .
Mr Varley said that it was clear Barclays must improve its performance in the UK retail bank .
" It is time for UK retail banking to be a source of strong growth again , " he said .
Higher funding costs and international investment at Barclaycard led to more muted growth where profits rose 5 per cent to Pounds 801m .
Barclays said it was " watchful but not worried " about rising consumer debt .
Mr Varley also brushed off recent speculation that Barclays could be acquired by a US rival , saying : " That is the last thing on my mind .
" These are record results .
We have the wind in our sails and as we go into 2005 we have terrific momentum .
We do not let ourselves be distracted by this . "
Mr Varley said that Barclays was progressing in talks to buy a controlling stake in Absa , the South African bank .
Group net interest margins narrowed to 2.59 per cent against 2.61 per cent .
The dividend is 24p ( 20.5p ) payable from earnings per share of 51.2p ( 42.3p ) .
See Lombard
