Barclays quarterly profits rise to pound(s)2.4bn
BANKS ; Surge in investment business lifts results
Barclays provided some welcome news for investors ahead of what is set to be a stormy annual meeting today as it revealed a sharp rise in underlying first-quarter profits .
A near doubling of income at its investment banking business helped pre-tax profits rise a fifth to pound(s)2.45bn , once a pound(s)300m provision for mis-sold loan insurance and a large negative swing in the value of its own debt were stripped out .
Including those factors , the bank fell into a pre-tax loss of pound(s)475m , compared with a pound(s)1.7bn profit in the first three months of 2011 .
Analysts highlighted the strong rebound of Barclays ' investment banking , particularly the fixed-income , currencies and commodities business , where income was more than double that of the final quarter of 2011 .
The corporate division also recovered strongly - pre-tax profits rose 10-fold - on the back of lower impairment losses in Spain and a one-off credit gain .
These two businesses helped lift the bank 's overall return on equity to 12.2 per cent excluding the accounting loss on debt and charge for payment protection insurance .
That was a huge improvement on last year , when Barclays ' ROE fell to 6.6 per cent , forcing it to warn it would not reach a 13 per cent target by 2013 .
But analysts were wary about the outlook for the rest of the year .
" The Q1 performance reflected usual seasonal strength which will not be repeated , " Investec told clients .
Bob Diamond , the bank 's chief executive , said its performance supported its ambitions of a sustained improvement in returns for shareholders but voiced caution on the UK and Europe 's economic outlook .
" Our progress will not be in a straight line , " he warned .
He faces a potentially acrimonious shareholders ' meeting today after a revolt over his pay package , with a number of large institutions set to vote against the remuneration report .
Mr Diamond and Chris Lucas , finance director , have promised to give up half their deferred 2011 bonuses if the bank failed to boost returns and they pledged to increase dividends as its performance improved .
The first-quarter dividend remained at 1p per share , which Mr Lucas said was " appropriate " given the market uncertainty .
He said the extra pound(s)300m PPI provision reflected a spike in claims from borrowers who say they were mis-sold loan insurance in March and April .
Shares inched up 0.5 per cent to pound(s)2.12 yesterday .
Credit : By Sharlene Goff and Adam Jones
