Barclays bounces
A year ago , Barclays acknowledged the suffering of its shareholders as it skipped a final dividend and regretted the fall in its share price .
Yesterday , announcing a near doubling of group pre-tax profit to pound(s)11.6bn in 2009 , the banking group talked about how it could contribute to society .
This is an impressive performance and an astute change of emphasis .
The first of the big UK banks to report , Barclays has set the bar high .
Underlying pre-tax profit rose from pound(s)1.6bn in 2008 to pound(s)5.6bn - a percentage increase even better than the headline number , boosted by the sale of Barclays Global Investors to BlackRock .
Greatly improved by the BGI disposal , return on equity was 24 per cent .
Several divisions , including UK retail banking , made less profit than in 2008 but profit at Barclays Capital rose 89 per cent to pound(s)2.46bn.
Barclays also showed its more sensitive side .
Marcus Agius , chairman , said banks must serve society .
In this rare foray into a results announcement , he pointed up the scale of Barclays ' lending within the UK economy .
Meanwhile , the two top executives - John Varley , chief executive , and Bob Diamond , group president - have declined annual bonuses for the second year running .
The results vindicate Barclays ' decision to avoid direct government help , which would have hobbled it across a range of decisions .
Even so , the performance was still aided by low central bank interest rates and implicit taxpayer guarantees that a bank this big would not be allowed to fail .
Forgoing the bonuses was smart tactics , but will not end public anger over bankers ' pay .
While the proportion of BarCap 's revenues spent on compensation may have dropped from 44 per cent to 38 per cent , attention will still focus on the average six-figure bonuses being paid .
Sacrificing the annual bonus could even backfire , as it contrasts with the incentive packages that remain untouched ; and serves as a reminder that senior executives can afford the luxury of self-denial in a way that others can not .
But the bonus restraint 's real purpose is to enable Barclays to be part of talks on the shape of banking .
It argues , correctly , that forcing banks to adopt " narrow " business models will not make the system safer .
Now , even though it would mean pain for bankers , Barclays should engage in the debate about devising a framework where big banks can safely fail .
Having done so much to keep a seat at the table , the bank should make sure it has something worth saying .
