Barclays
Is that it , then ?
Can we stop talking about Barclays ' capital now ?
Chief executive Antony Jenkins will hope so .
Yesterday 's pound(s)5.8bn rights issue will go a long way towards plugging the bank 's pound(s)12.8bn capital hole .
Retained earnings and balance sheet shrinkage will also help .
It is a big cash call , equivalent to 15 per cent of the market capitalisation .
But if it puts an end to the uncertainty on capital , it will be worth the effort .
Whether pound(s)5.8bn is enough depends on the definition of enough .
It fulfils the latest regulatory requirements .
Barclays ' leverage ratio ( capital as a proportion of total assets ) of 2.2 per cent falls short of what regulators want .
The latest plan will get the bank to its 3 per cent target by next June .
And it has good reason to raise only what it needs .
As it is , the bank has delayed the date when its return on equity will beat its 11.5 per cent cost of equity by a year to 2016 .
But that does not mean Barclays ' capital concerns have disappeared .
Regulatory demands are fluid , as the latest enthusiasm for leverage ratios demonstrates .
Earnings recovery , and the ability to generate capital internally , could take longer than expected - earnings forecasts for 2013 are a fifth lower than they were two years ago .
The drip-drip of conduct issues continues , with another pound(s)2bn of provisions taken in the first half of 2013 .
Yet despite this uncertainty Barclays has become more generous on dividends , pledging to pay more , and sooner .
The sugar rush of the dividend promise sweetens the bitter pill of the rights issue , but will make Mr Jenkins ' life more difficult if he needs more capital later .
As it is , the bank is taking money from investors only to return some of it next year .
Barclays has taken a big step towards answering the questions about its capital .
But other banks are in a more comfortable position .
We can stop talking about Barclays ' capital for the moment , but do not be surprised if the chatter returns .
