Barclays announces bond plans
BANKS ; Amount likely to be a benchmark EUR1bn ; Move follows pound(s)400m Lloyds deal
Barclays has announced plans for the first public bond from a bank to benefit from UK government guarantees , setting the precedent for other British banks to access the capital markets using the guarantee .
While the size of the deal is not set , it is likely to be a benchmark bond and could total close to EUR1bn ( pound(s)775m ) with a three-year maturity , one person with knowledge of the deal said .
The guaranteeing of bank debt issuance was one of the central features of the UK government 's bail-out of the banking sector this month .
Barclays is working with HSBC , Lloyds TSB , Royal Bank of Scotland , Santander and Standard Chartered in arranging the transaction , although Barclays will have sole control of book-running .
The deal follows a pound(s)400m bond issue by Lloyds last week .
That sale marked the first financial bond to be sold in the US or Europe since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in early September and one of the first bond sales of any kind in the past five weeks .
However , unlike Barclays , it did not use the UK government guarantee .
While the Barclays bond is the first public , syndicated UK government guaranteed bond from a bank , other institutions are believed to have used the guarantee to issue privately placed , much shorter-dated debt .
RBS , for example , has issued several billion pounds of debt using the guarantee in the past few days , one person close to the bank said .
The UK guarantee charges banks a fee based on a bank 's average premium in credit derivatives markets from October 2007 to October 2008 , plus a further 50 basis points .
Analysts at Credit Suisse estimated the average credit default swap spread to be about 80 basis points .
This fee will be applied to the principal amount of the bond .
However , the government has said it may use its own estimate of an appropriate CDS spread if public data are not available and apply an incremental fee for non-sterling issuance that uses the guarantee .
Barclays has denominated the bond issue in euros , as a result of feedback from investors , the person said .
It is expected to carry a triple-A credit rating from all three main rating agencies .
The rate of interest paid on the bond has still to be set .
But initial discussions with investors indicate it could be about the level of 25 basis points over the London interbank offered rate , Libor , the rate at which banks lend to each other .
Credit : By Anousha Sakoui and Peter Thal Larsen
