Barclays ' HQ plans face scrutiny BANKING
Financial regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are expected to closely scrutinise Barclays ' plans to move its headquarters to Amsterdam if the banking group 's takeover of ABN Amrosucceeds .
Britain 's Financial Services Authority and the US Securities and Exchange Commission have to approve the proposed move , which will see the Dutch central bank take the lead in overseeing what will be one of the world 's largest financial institutions .
Barclays has not yet had detailed discussions with the FSA about its proposed move and is likely to demand more information before making its decision .
The FSA is expected to insist that the change of regulator should only go ahead if day-to-day control of the combined bank will be handled from Amsterdam .
Barclays has agreed to move its corporate headquarters to Amsterdam as a concession to win agreement from ABN Amro .
But it is unclear whether the bank 's senior management will be based in Amsterdam and some observers suspect the move is a ceremonial one .
" The issue about who will be the lead regulator has to do with where the corporate management of the combined bank is , " said one person close to the FSA .
As advisers continued to negotiate details of the takeover , John Varley , Barclays ' chief executive , and Bob Diamond , the bank 's president , met investors in New York as part of a pre-arranged roadshow designed to coincide with Barclays ' board meeting this week .
Shares in Barclays and ABN Amro continued to rise , in spite of continued scepticism from investment analysts about the deal .
Analysts at Citigroup issued a " sell " recommendation , arguing that a takeover of ABN Amro at Euros 33 a share was " inconsistent with the group 's stated target of a return commensurate with the risk and well in excess of the cost of capital " .
Separately , it emerged that Rijkman Groenink , ABN Amro 's chief executive , and other senior executives bought shares in the bank on March 14 .
ABN Amro said the decision to make the purchases had been made in November .
