Barclays plans integration after Absa bank deal
Barclays is to integrate its existing African operations into Absa after it agreed yesterday to buy a majority stake in the South African bank for R33bn ( Pounds 2.9bn ) .
The UK 's third-largest bank said Absa would purchase Barclays ' other 11 African operations after the deal completes in July .
The combined businesses will then be folded into Absa within the next six to 24 months .
These include three quoted businesses in Kenya , Botswana and Zimbabwe .
The bank said this second phase of the transaction could help increase revenue synergies of R1.4bn that have been promised by Barclays within four years .
The Barclays ' acquisition of Absa is South Africa 's largest inward investment since the end of apartheid 11 years ago .
It is also Barclays ' biggest acquisition since it bought Woolwich Building Society in 2000 and the first deal under John Varley , new chief executive .
Barclays , which was the biggest bank in South Africa before it pulled out 18 years ago due to anti-apartheid protests , is paying R82.50 per share plus a R2 dividend .
The price represents a 8.9 times multiple of market consensus earnings for the year ending March 2006 and a 2.4 times multiple to market consensus book value .
The UK bank has designed its offer for 60 per cent of Absa in two parts to accommodate minority shareholders eager to benefit from the transaction 's expected upside .
The first part is a scheme of arrangement proposed by Barclays to acquire 32 per cent of Absa 's shares .
An additional 28 per cent will be sold in a voluntary tender offer by the UK bank .
Key shareholders representing 63 per cent of Absa 's share capital have provided written support for the offer .
Barclays said the Absa management would stay in place and the Absa board would now work out an incentive pay structure for the management based on delivering the promised synergies .
Barclays is forecasting R1.4bn of pre-tax synergies four years after the acquisition 's completion .
Of this , 60 per cent would come from enhanced revenues and 40 per cent from cost efficiencies in areas like IT .
Job cuts among Absa 's 31,000 staff will be small .
Much of the upside would come from revenue synergies by using Barclays ' expertise in credit cards , for example , to help it target new customers in South Africa where just 10 per cent of the population have credit cards .
After the transaction , Barclays will generate about one-third of its earnings from outside the UK , from 25 per cent at present .
Ten per cent of the total will come from Africa .
Absa , which is South Africa 's largest retail bank , has 7m customers , 675 branches and more than 5,000 ATMs .
The banks ' operations overlap in only three countries : South Africa , Zimbabwe and Tanzania .
However , analysts also expressed considerable scepticism about Barclays ' plans to fold the rest of its African businesses into Absa .
The bank has only just begun the process of working out how much the various businesses are worth and how best to arrange the transfer .
Some analysts questioned how much value the acquisition would create .
Barclays said the move is immediately accretive to earnings per share .
The return on investment of the move in Rand terms is about 15 per cent within four years - which works out at low teens in sterling terms .
This is higher than Barclays ' group cost of capital , which is about 9.5 per cent .
However , some analysts questioned the company 's calculations , arguing that the increased risk inherent in the South African market meant the bank should be attaching a higher hurdle rate for investments made in that country .
Barclays shares rose by 3p to 554p and Absa shares rose to R82.5.
Barclays is being advised by JPMorgan and Barclays Capital .
Absa is being advised by Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch International .
Editorial Comment , Page 18 More on Absa deal at www.ft.com / barclays
