Barclays shares hit by ratings downgrade
BANKS ; Moody 's says more writedowns possible ; Recent rally comes to abrupt halt
Barclays ' share price fell and the cost of insuring its debt against default rose yesterday after Moody 's , the rating agency , cut the bank 's credit ratings and raised the prospect of heavy future losses on complex debt securities .
The downgrade brought an abrupt end to the remarkable rally in Barclays ' shares , which doubled in value last week after its chairman and chief executive took the unusual step of publishing an open letter to shareholders reassuring them about the bank 's 2008 results .
In lowering Barclays ' credit rating by two notches to Aa3 from Aa1 , Moody 's signalled the possibility that continued turmoil in financial markets could lead to " significant further writedowns on the bank 's credit market exposures " .
Moody 's singled out Barclays ' pound(s)10.3bn ( $14.6bn ) commercial mortgage portfolio and its pound(s)23bn portfolio of securities that are insured by monoline credit insurers .
Moody 's also said losses on lending to corporations and consumers in the UK were likely to increase as a result of the deepening economic downturn .
Moody 's last month cut Royal Bank of Scotland 's ratings by the same amount .
The downgrade is a setback for the bank in its efforts to persuade investors it has weathered the credit market storms better than its rivals .
Many investors remain sceptical about the valuation of assets on Barclays ' balance sheet , saying it will eventually have to recognise losses that other banks have absorbed .
In the open letter Marcus Agius , Barclays ' chairman , and John Varley , its chief executive , signalled that Barclays had written off pound(s)8bn on complex debt instruments last year but that this was partially offset by hedges and accounting gains from the reduced value of the bank 's own debt .
Moody 's also lowered its assessment of Barclays ' financial strength from B to C but acknowledged that , after twice raising capital last year , the bank could absorb pound(s)16bn-pound(s)17bn of losses without breaching regulatory capital limits .
" You could see losses of up to this level and , all other things being equal , it would n't have an impact on this rating , " said Elisabeth Rudman , a vice-president and senior credit officer in Moody 's financial institutions group .
Shares in Barclays fell by more than 10 per cent following the Moody 's downgrade .
Meanwhile , the cost of insuring its debt against default rose 14.5 basis points to 187 basis points , meaning it costs pound(s)187,000 a year to insure pound(s)10m of Barclays bonds over five years .
Moody 's also downgraded Absa , the biggest retail bank in South Africa , which is 58 per cent owned by Barclays , saying its previous estimate of Absa 's creditworthiness had been based on " very high probability of systemic and parental support in the event of need " from Barclays .
That probability seems to have shifted in light of Barclays ' own downgrade .
Credit : By Peter Thal Larsen in London and Tom Burgis in Johannesburg
