Barclays wins lawsuit brought by San Marino bank over debt products
banks ; Total claims of EUR92m dismissed ; Key ruling over sale of CDOs
Barclays has won a legal case brought against it by a small San Marino bank which alleged the UK bank sold it complex debt products which were " much riskier " than the triple A credit rating they had been given .
Cassa di Risparmio della Repubblica di San Marino ( CRSM ) had claimed EUR92m ( $128m ) in losses and lost income , alleging fraudulent misrepresentation over the sale of ultra complex collateralised debt obligations ( CDOs ) during a long-running trial in the UK 's High Court .
Barclays had strongly denied the claims .
Mr Justice Hamblen ruled on Wednesday that CRSM 's claims all failed on various grounds and must be dismissed , " despite the considerable skill with which the claimant 's case was constructed and presented " .
Barclays said it welcomed the ruling .
" We have consistently said this case was without merit and any factual basis , " it said .
The case centred around four sets of structured notes with a total nominal value of EUR406m sold by Barclays to CRSM in early 2005 .
The notes had embedded within them complex credit derivatives known as CDOs which gave exposure to the credit risk of a pool of assets which included further CDOs .
CRSM had alleged that Barclays sold the notes on the basis of an agreed triple A rating which they intended CRSM to rely on as indicating a minimal level of risk when Barclays knew that the notes were far riskier than their credit rating indicated .
The ruling is important because it is one of a number of actions faced by banks over complex credit products that have triggered widespread losses in the financial industry .
The case has also shone a spotlight into the sale of these derivative products at the height of the markets boom .
The judgment will be closely watched by several banks which are considering bringing lawsuits against larger institutions over the sale of complex financial instruments .
In another case last year , the High Court ruled in favour of Royal Bank of Scotland which was fighting a claim brought against it by one of Austria 's biggest banks in relation to a complex financial transaction relating to a syndicated loan .
A judge ruled that RBS , which is majority owned by the UK government , did not mislead Raiffeisen Zentralbank Osterreich in relation to a complex transaction instigated by RBS for Enron in 2000 .
Separately , Italian police and judicial authorities have mounted a widening investigation into banks ' sales of complex derivatives worth a total of EUR40bn to Italian municipalities from 2001 to 2008 .
In December , Italian finance police swooped on six banks , including Deutsche Bank and Bank of America , and named 22 people in an investigation into alleged fraudulent sales of EUR1.4bn ( $1.8bn ) worth of derivatives to local authorities in Tuscany .
Credit : By Jane Croft in London
