Barclays bounces back after soothing fears over BarCap
LONDON
Barclays was among the talking points yesterday as the FTSE 100 edged higher .
The stock was in focus amid speculation that Barclays Capital , its investment banking division , had missed internal targets for November .
Investors said Barclays management had been talking about an industry-wide trend of weak capital markets activity last month .
Brokers including Redburn Partners reckoned the weakness made revenue guidance look a stretch .
However , Chris Lucas , Barclays ' finance officer , told an investment conference in Paris that the bank remained comfortable with 2009 consensus forecasts .
Mr Lucas flagged up recent " seasonality " at BarCap but maintained guidance for the division given at the half year .
He also said the Dubai crisis provided no reason to change impairment guidance , helping Barclays shares rally from a 3.9 per cent intraday loss to close 0.5 per cent higher at 297 1/2 p.
The rest of the financial sector was under pressure following a weak performance from Wall Street peers overnight , and ahead of the European Central Bank outlining today how it will scale back support measures .
Traders also noted research from Credit Suisse arguing that the domestic lenders will face further capital pressures as risk assets such as equities are reweighted .
Analyst Jonathan Pierce concluded that none of the UK banks looked cheap enough given the risk of further downgrades .
Royal Bank of Scotland ended down 2.1 per cent at 33 1/2 p , while Lloyds Banking Group faded 1.8 per cent to 53.1p.
Miners provided the foundation for the wider market , helping the FTSE 100 to gain 15.22 , or 0.3 per cent , to 5,327.39.
Lonmin led blue-chip stocks higher , rising 3.2 per cent to pound(s)19.11 after Investec added the stock to its " buy " list based on management 's gradual turnround .
" We do see a risk that the recent platinum price rally could reverse .
However , we believe the market is looking through near-term issues and is valuing Lonmin on its long-term potential , " said Investec , which set a pound(s)20.75 price target .
Vedanta Resources added 2.5 per cent to pound(s)24.45 on the back of a Goldman Sachs upgrade to " buy " .
Goldman forecast metals prices to correct in the coming months , but argued that companies with production volume growth would be hedged against the correction .
This led it to recommend Vedanta and Kazakhmys , up 2.3 per cent to pound(s)13.09.
Anglo American edged up 0.3 per cent to pound(s)27.21 as Merrill Lynch ran the figures on a likely refinancing of its Anglo Platinum subsidiary early next year .
It concluded that the removal of uncertainty should overshadow the cost .
Energy stocks were weaker after an unexpected increase in US oil inventories sent crude prices sharply lower .
BG Group was 0.8 per cent weaker at pound(s)11.20 1/2 and the B shares of Royal Dutch Shell fell 0.4 per cent to pound(s)17.64.
Cairn Energy was the sharpest Footsie faller , down 2.6 per cent to pound(s)30.64.
Research house Omni started coverage of the stock with a " sell , " arguing that exploration news would be sparse before 2011 and takeover theories looked doubtful .
A short squeeze lifted Sage Group by 3 per cent to 221p after the software maker 's full-year results matched expectations .
Following in-line results on Tuesday , Tui Travel rebounded by 2.1 per cent to 248 1/2 p as brokers including Citigroup and Merrill Lynch repeated " buy " advice .
Vodafone rose 2.2 per cent to 143p after Credit Suisse raised its target price to 160p based on European trading beating expectations .
Eaga led the mid-cap risers with a 4.8 per cent gain to 137 1/2 p after the UK government gave the green light to a pound(s)8.5bn " smart meter " programme .
The heating installer is expected to be among the leading bidders for the work .
Spice , up 0.7 per cent to 73p , is also expected to pitch .
Among the fallers , Britvic eased 2.5 per cent to 389 3/4 p after its chief executive and finance director exercised and sold share options .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
