Barclays ' bad month capped by double blow
banks
Barclays was thrust into fresh controversy yesterday after the bank revealed the double blow of a regulatory inquiry into its finance director and a pound(s)450m charge for potential mis-selling to small business customers .
The disclosures followed a turbulent month for Barclays in which three senior executives resigned over the bank 's involvement in the Libor rigging scandal .
Marcus Agius , the outgoing chairman , reiterated his regret over the recent events , saying that he " recognised that we have disappointed our customers and shareholders " .
But Mr Agius was immediately forced to defend Barclays in the face of the two new setbacks .
Barclays said that the new regulatory investigation involved Chris Lucas , the finance director , and three other current and former employees .
Three people familiar with the affair said the investigation extended to Roger Jenkins , the former head of the bank 's tax advisory business , who masterminded a contentious capital raising led by the Qatar Investment Authority in 2008 .
The investigation centres on whether there was appropriate disclosure of fees paid by Barclays to the Qatar Investment Authority , the emirate 's sovereign wealth fund , when it made the investment .
Barclays shares shrugged off the bad news yesterday rising 9 per cent to pound(s)1.67 as investors focused on the better than expected underlying performance in the first six months of 2012 .
The bank said first-half headline pre-tax profits fell 71 per cent to pound(s)759m .
Part of that decline was because of the newly quantified cost of compensating small and medium-sized businesses that had been mis-sold interest rate hedging products .
Barclays was one of four banks to agree a settlement with the Financial Services Authority , the City regulator , last month over the mis-selling of interest rate swaps to SMEs .
Yesterday it took a pound(s)450m provision related to the " review and redress exercise " agreed with the FSA , although it said that pound(s)100m of this was expected to unwind eventually .
The steep fall in Barclays ' statutory pre-tax profit was mainly attributable to a pound(s)2.95bn " own credit " accounting loss on the fluctuating value of its issued debt .
It also had to absorb an already announced pound(s)300m charge related to the mis-selling of payment protection insurance .
However , on an underlying basis that excludes the " own credit " accounting distortion and other items , first-half pre-tax profit rose 13 per cent to pound(s)4.23bn , ahead of analysts ' average forecast of pound(s)3.82bn.
Barclays ' investment banking business , particularly its fixed-income division , did better than rivals with revenue up 5 per cent and costs down 3 per cent .
See Lex
Credit : By Patrick Jenkins , Sharlene Goff and Adam Jones in London
