Barclays leads banking sector falls on concerns over funding gap
london
Banks led the FTSE 100 to a fourth straight decline yesterday , with Barclays the sector 's sharpest faller .
Barclays slid 3.8 per cent to 181.9p as the cost of insuring against a Spanish default rose to a record .
The stock has been the worst performing UK blue chip over the past five days , losing 12.9 per cent .
Barclays has written pound(s)21.8bn of loans in Spain , of which pound(s)10.6bn is not funded by local depositors or the European Central Bank , according to Autonomous Research .
Its funding gap across all the main peripheral nations was pound(s)31.8bn , which meant a 50 per cent devaluation would cut Barclays ' tangible book value by a third , the broker said .
As well as the eurozone crisis , pressure on the UK lenders reflected the fading prospect of a third round of quantitative easing .
" The end of QE has arrived , with the level of bank lending still in decline and its cost once more rising , " said UBS .
" Banks with distressed price-to-book multiples and an elevated cost of funding are forced to raise loan prices and seek to shrink loan balances . "
Royal Bank of Scotland slipped 3.7 per cent to 21.1p and Lloyds Banking Group was off 3.6 per cent to 27.7p.
The FTSE 's bank index has erased its 2012 gain after dropping nearly 17 per cent since mid-March .
Risk aversion dragged the wider market to a new five-month low .
The FTSE 100 was down 1.2 per cent , or 66.87 points , to 5,338.38
British Airways and Iberia owner IAG lost 6 per cent to 143.5p on fears about the stability of Bankia , its largest shareholder .
The Spanish state-controlled lender inherited its 12.05 per cent stake in IAG last year via a government bailout of Caja Madrid , which held shares in Iberia .
Separately , Spain 's Ahorro bank downgraded IAG to " sell " on the poor performance of its BMI acquisition and weakening demand out of Madrid .
Aviva lost 4.7 per cent to 267.7p on mixed first-quarter figures .
Investors were disappointed the insurer would take until the end of the year to find a new chief executive , while some analysts interpreted comments on building balance sheet strength as raising the chances of a dividend cut .
Vedanta Resources led the miners lower , losing 4 per cent to 985p .
Fees to bankers , provisions and losses on debt meant its annual earnings missed consensus expectations .
The rest of the mining sector found little support in spite of rising metals prices .
Xstrata lost 3 per cent to 956.2p and Kazakhmys was off 3 per cent to 690.5p.
But Antofagasta rose 1.4 per cent to pound(s)10.26 after in-line results .
A stabilisation for bullion helped precious metals miners reverse recent underperformance .
Randgold Resources rose 4.6 per cent to pound(s)48.55 and African Barrick Gold was up 11.1 per cent to 344.3p.
Goldman Sachs took African Barrick off its " sell " list on valuation grounds .
Icap rose 1.6 per cent to 342p a day after results , with UBS upgrading the inter-dealer broker from " sell " to " neutral " .
" We believe that the structural risks from banks deleveraging are well understood by the markets , and that Icap 's numbers show that its diversified business model should help withstand a cyclical shock , " said UBS .
TalkTalk bounced 19.8 per cent to 159p after it raised a long-term earnings target and committed to dividend growth of at least 15 per cent annually for the next two years .
Headline numbers from the internet provider matched expectations , with customer numbers ahead .
Cookson was up 5.5 per cent to 679p after beginning a review to split itself into two .
The ceramics and electronics company also gave a seat on the board to Cevain Capital , the activist investor that owns about a fifth of Cookson shares .
Kesa Electricals sunk 13.6 per cent to 46.8p on expectations the retailer would cut its dividend next month .
A year-end trading update flagged up a higher than expected tax rate , as Kesa could no longer offset losses against profit elsewhere .
Analysts saw the tax guidance as cutting earnings by about 15 per cent .
Sector peer Dixons Retail , which last week gave a similar warning about offsetting tax , lost a further 4.9 per cent to 14.4p.
Chemicals maker Yule Catto lost 8 per cent to 197.4p even after delivering a broadly in-line update , though management was cautious on European uncertainties and the effect of sterling 's strength .
Among small caps , retailer French Connection dropped 24.1 per cent to 30p on a profit warning .
Biggest movers , Page 27 Small-caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder
