Barclays buys back $9bn portfolio of credit assets from former staff
U-turn comes as bank posts 9 % fall in profits
Barclays is buying back a troublesome $9.3bn ( pound(s)5.6bn ) portfolio of credit assets , codenamed Protium , 18 months after selling it to a fund dominated by former employees in an elaborate accounting manoeuvre designed to make its profits less volatile .
The bank detailed the U-turn on Wednesday as it reported a 9 per cent fall in profits for the first quarter of 2011 .
Barclays ' shares fell 4 per cent to 289.65p following the results .
Analysts said the Protium affair had damaged Barclays ' reputation but the more concerning news was on the outlook for earnings .
Barclays had said previously it was comfortable with analysts ' consensus expectations for pound(s)7bn of underlying pre-tax profit this year .
But management said on Wednesday the number , while still correct , did not include an estimated pound(s)400m hit from a government levy on UK banks .
" Effectively that is a 6 per cent downgrade , " said Simon Maughan , analyst at MF Global .
Analysts said the 8.1 per cent return on equity for the three months to March was flattered by the non-inclusion of the levy hit and a pound(s)190m write-up of the value of Protium assets .
They questioned the write-up , given that indices relating to underlying credit market assets fell in the first quarter .
Barclays is taking back full ownership of the Protium assets from C12 , a spun-off entity created in September 2009 to wind down the portfolio over 10 years with the help of a $12.6bn loan from Barclays .
The manoeuvre was designed to protect the bank from losses created by fluctuations in the market value of assets that remained illiquid after the financial crisis .
But under new Basel III global rules , banks must hold more capital against loans of this type .
Barclays will pay an $83m break fee to C12 .
It has also agreed to buy out unidentified third-party investors in the fund for $270m .
In addition , Barclays will invest $750m in another C12 credit fund called Helix .
Barclays made a pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.66bn in the first quarter , down 9 per cent on the same period in 2010 .
Stripping out the effect of acquisitions , disposals and fluctuations in the value of its own debt , adjusted pre-tax profit was pound(s)2bn , up 10 per cent .
Additional reporting by Sam Jones
Lex , Page 18 Lombard , Page 20 Pressure on Barclays , Page 21 Accountancy , Page 25
Credit : By Adam Jones and Patrick Jenkins
