Barclays ' misled ' Italian bank on CDOs ' risk , court hears
Banks
Barclays " misled " an Italian bank when it sold complex debt products that were " much riskier " than the triple A credit rating they had been given , the High Court was told on Monday .
The UK bank is being sued by Cassa di Risparmio di San Marino bank , which is seeking EUR92m ( pound(s)78m ) in losses and lost income alleging fraudulent misrepresentation over the sale of ultra complex collaterised debt obligations ( CDOs ) .
Barclays denies the allegations .
The case is one of a number of actions faced by banks over complex credit products that have triggered widespread losses in the financial industry .
George Leggatt QC , representing San Marino , told the High Court the Italian bank " thought they were getting a safe investment with a low chance of loss " , but he claimed that the underlying assets within the CDO squared were " much riskier " .
" Barclays designed an asset which instead of being safer than the reference assets was actually much riskier , " he said , adding one expert had called this " credit rating arbitrage " .
The court was told the CDO designed by Barclays was given a triple A rating by the rating agencies , suggesting the probability of default was assessed at a " fraction of 1 per cent " .
However , the court heard that Barclays and other experts calculated the probability of default was " of a different order " at 25 per cent or more .
Mr Leggatt said that " Barclays misled San Marino as to the implication of the AAA rating " .
" If you have deliberately structured the product to achieve a different risk , we say you have crossed the line into misrepresentation and potentially deceit , " he said .
" The wrong comes we say , the moment you start to exploit the rating in order to sell the product knowing the investor is relying on the rating . . . and believes the product has a low risk of default . "
Barclays said it was " defending itself vigorously " against the allegations , which it believed were without merit .
Andrew Baker QC , representing Barclays , said various disclaimers and exclusion clauses included in the purchase contracts showed San Marino was " capable of assessing the merits and the terms and risks " .
The hearing continues .
Credit : By Jane Croft , Law Courts Correspondent
