BASF makes ' best and final offer ' ENGELHARD BID
BASF , the German chemicals group , set the scene for a tense climax to its hostile bid for Engelhard , the US catalyst maker , when it raised its offer Dollars 1 to Dollars 39 a share in what Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , called a " best and final offer " .
Engelhard 's board said it was reviewing the Dollars 5.1bn offer , a Dollars 260m premium on a first bid of Dollars 37 a share made by the German company in early January .
Barry Perry , Engelhard chief executive , has rejected BASF 's offers , arguing that they are too low .
He wants shareholders to accept a plan to buy back20 per cent of stock at Dollars 45 a share at the annual meeting on June 2 .
Should the Engelhard board remain firm , the meeting at the end of next week will provide a showdown finale to one of the toughest transatlantic takeover battles .
Both sides want shareholders to decide who wins that day .
Mr Hambrecht and Mr Perry are lobbying stakeholders to install a majority of their nominees on an enlarged Engelhard board , opening the way for either an agreed takeover offer or a limited share buyback programme .
The BASF chief executive has repeatedly said he could walk away from the Engelhard deal and buy other companies .
In his view , the Germans made a fair , fully priced initial offer and will not be tempted to overpay .
At the same time , he has stressed the strategic importance of Engelhard to BASF , as this fast-growing business would lessen the giant 's dependence on the price cycle in the chemicals business .
But Mr Hambrecht was happy to put his own reputation on the line yesterday by warning Engelhard shareholders that he would " let the offer expire and pursue other opportunities " if they did not back BASF on Friday next week .
Engelhard , meanwhile , gave an indication of the expense of its protracted defence .
The company said second-quarter earnings would have beaten analysts ' expectations of56 cents or 57 cents a share if it had not been for BASF 's bid .
Net earnings of 48-52 cents a share in the second quarter would be weighed down by 11 cents of expenses and about 3 cents of share dilution " due to the impact of BASF 's unsolicited tender offer " , Engelhard said .
Should Engelhard shareholders accept the German offer , they would have to tender shares by June 5 .
