BASF continues acquisition drive with $3bn agreed offer for Ciba
BASF , the world 's biggest chemicals company , yesterday continued its acquisition drive with an agreed offer to buy Switzerland 's ailing Ciba for SFr3.4bn ( $3.04bn ) .
Ciba , which had sales of SFr6.52bn and 13,000 employees last year , is one of the most famous names in Swiss industry and a cornerstone of its home town Basel .
But while prized for its expertise and patents , the company has been on a downward spiral for some years .
Problems came to a head last month when Ciba reported a second-quarter loss of SFr606m after a SFr595m impairment charge on its water and paper treatment division .
Adding Ciba , which specialises in plastics additives , coatings and water and paper treatment , will make BASF a world leader in plastics additives and in chemicals for paper , and number two in coating effects , from fourth in all three categories .
BASF will offer SFr50 a share , a 32 per cent premium on Friday 's close and 64 per cent more than the weighted average of Ciba 's share price over the past 30 trading days .
Although well below the share price set when Ciba was spun off from Novartis in 1997 , analysts expected no counter-bids .
Ciba shares jumped by more than 28 per cent to close at SFr48.68.
The offer values Ciba , including debt , at SFr6.1bn.
Ciba 's results were followed by a campaign by activist shareholders to unseat Armin Meyer , the chairman and , until last January , chief executive .
" Against the backdrop of increasingly challenging conditions in our industry , this is a transaction that combines a fair price with an industrially compelling solution for Ciba , " said Mr Meyer .
" With the acquisition of Ciba we are strengthening our portfolio and expanding our leading position in speciality chemicals , " said Jurgen Hambrecht , BASF 's chief executive .
The deal would boost earnings per share from the second year .
The deal is dependent on an extraordinary meeting to lift Ciba 's voting right restrictions , and on acceptances from two thirds of shareholders .
Adriano Agosti , whose Golden Peaks group had led Swiss opposition to Mr Meyer , called the deal " capitulation " .
Ciba was advised by Credit Suisse , Lazard and Homburger , a Swiss law firm .
BASF was advised by Deutsche Bank .
Lex , Page 16 Integration trend , Page 18
Credit : By Haig Simonian in Zurich and Gerrit Wiesmann in Berlin
