BASF wields axe as demand weakens
chemicals
BASF , the world 's largest chemicals company , said yesterday the global manufacturing slump dragged its first-quarter sales down by a quarter and wiped two-thirds off net profit , forcing it to broaden cost and job cuts .
Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , said demand for products had kept on falling this year .
There was " currently no sign of a reversal of this trend " , he said , signalling that the second quarter could be even tougher .
As a result , BASF would crank up its restructuring , closing or selling sites that were not competitive .
It would also raise the number of planned jobs cuts from its global workforce of 97,000 by a third , to around 2,000 .
Despite the acquisition of speciality chemicals group Ciba and oil company Revus , Mr Hambrecht said sales would fall below the EUR62.3bn ( $82.3bn ) seen in 2008 .
Operating income would come in " sharply " below last year 's EUR6.9bn.
He said it was becoming " extremely difficult " to achieve operating income to match capital costs - some EUR3.5bn at assumed interest of 9 per cent - and a payout of EUR1.95 per share for 2008 would be hard to match .
The German company said " drastic " sales declines in its plastics and chemicals units pushed quarterly revenues 23 per cent lower to EUR12.2bn.
Net profit slipped 68 per cent to EUR375m as prices for its products eroded .
The company reacted quickly last autumn when the global financial crisis spiralled into an economic slump .
It closed or made idle production facilities for the first time in more than five years , making 7,000 employees work fewer hours .
When consumers tightened their belts and stopped buying cars or houses , BASF suffered a slump in demand for products such as plastics or construction chemicals , as manufacturers made less and used up their inventories .
With sales volumes of some BASF products falling by as much as 50 per cent , Mr Hambrecht said the process of shrinking capacity to demand had proved " exceedingly difficult and painful " for executives and workers .
He said there were signs some of BASF 's customers were again buying its products .
But he said he did not consider " temporary topping up of inventories in some regions " as proof of a new and sustainable upturn .
BASF said less demand for chemicals and plastics saw first-quarter sales in Asia , the manufacturing hub for many industries , fall 34 per cent .
North American revenues fell 26 per cent , those in Europe 21 per cent , it said .
The company said that its energy division profited from higher natural gas prices .
Its unit making chemicals for agriculture benefited from higher sales .
But it warned these positive trends looked set to fade in the next months .
Credit : By Gerrit Wiesmann in Frankfurt
