BASF seals EUR3bn takeover of Cognis
chemicals ; Group chief hails ' ideal acquisition '
BASF yesterday sealed a EUR3.1bn ( $3.8bn ) deal to take over smaller rival Cognis , in one of the largest acquisitions the chemicals sector has seen this year .
The world 's largest chemicals group by revenues said it had reached an agreement with Cognis 's owners - US investment bank Goldman Sachs and British private equity group Permira - to buy the company for an equity purchasing price of EUR700m .
Including Cognis 's high debt load and the speciality chemicals maker 's pension obligations , the deal values the company at EUR3.1bn.
The move , which is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to be formally completed by November , marks a fast return to acquisitions for BASF after its almost EUR4bn takeover of Swiss rival Ciba in 2008 .
The deal will give the German chemical maker a boost in its drive to diversify away from oil-based products into environmentally friendly , less cyclical and higher-margin products with natural ingredients such as coconut oil .
Cognis mainly produces cosmetics and personal care products such as antiageing creams and detergents .
The deal will also bring BASF closer to large global consumer product groups such as Procter & Gamble , to whom Cognis is a preferred supplier .
" Cognis is much closer to the customer and [ more ] market-driven than BASF , " Jurgen Hambrecht , BASF 's chief executive , said .
" We are diversifying BASF 's industrial exposure by going into consumerfocused businesses .
This is almost an ideal acquisition for BASF , " he added .
Analysts welcomed the acquisition .
" Strategically it is a sound move in our view , pushing BASF towards a leading position in personal and homecare products , " said Stephan Kippe at Commerzbank .
The deal could mark Mr Hambrecht 's last significant strategic step , as he is set to be replaced by chief financial officer Kurt Bock next year .
Mr Hambrecht ruled out further large acquisitions for at least two years as he said BASF 's priority was to keep its solid A plus credit rating .
The deal will be financed with cash and the issuance of commercial paper .
BASF plans to integrate the business into its performance products segment , which made revenues of EUR9.4bn in the past year .
" By purchasing Cognis , we will in particular expand our portfolio with products based on renewable raw materials , " said John Feldmann , head of BASF 's performance products .
He said integration costs would be EUR200m-EUR250m , while the future synergies would amount to a minimum of 5 per cent of Cognis ' sales .
BASF , advised byLazard , initially hesitated to pay more than EUR3bn as it was wary of being seen to be overpaying after its acquisition of Ciba drew criticism .
Credit : By Daniel Schafer in Frankfurt
