BASF stays firm on bid for catalyst group CHEMICALS
BASF , the world 's largest chemicals group , yesterday set the scene for a showdown over its proposed acquisition of US catalytic converter specialist Engelhard .
A the long-running bid battle now looks set to be decided at Engelhard 's annual meeting on June 2 .
The German chemicals group refused to raise its Dollars 38 a share bid but extended its Dollars 4.9bn all-cash offer until June 5 and proposed a total of five nominees to join the Engelhard board at the AGM three days earlier .
Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , said : " Clearly we believe that this will lead them to facilitate the BASF offer and terminate Engelhard 's proposed leveraged recapitalisation and 20 per cent share buy-back . "
Last week , Engelhard scotched hopes of a negotiated deal with BASF , after three months of ding-dong talks , unveiling instead a defence strategy centred on a planned Dollars 1.2bn share buy-back at Dollars 45 a share .
Engelhard also said it would extend its board from six to nine , proposing its own nominees .
However , if BASF 's nominees are all elected , they would gain the majority on the board .
BASF 's three new nominees are Arthur de Graffenried , a former Citigroup banker ; William Vinson , a lawyer with LockheedMartin ; and Stanford Warshawsky , an investment banker , former chemicals company director and member of the German-American chamber of commerce .
BASF had already proposed Julian Brodsky , chairman of Comcast , and John Linehan , a director of Pacific Energy Partners .
Some Engelhard shareholders signalled last week that they expected BASF 's offer - increased from Dollars 37 to Dollars 38 a share after the group conducted due diligence - to be raised to at least Dollars 40 .
By the previous bid deadline of April 28 , less than1 per cent of Engelhard stock had been tendered by its shareholders .
But advisers have stressed that the German company is convinced its offer is already fair and point to Engelhard 's share price , which is only a touch above Dollars 38 .
Mr Hambrecht said yesterday : " If Engelhard 's shareholders do n't vote in favour of our nominees , we will allow our tender offer to expire on June 5 and turn our attention to other opportunities . "
Last week , BASF announced a potentially lucrative asset swap deal with Russia 's Gazprom .
BASF has been drawn to Engelhard by its catalyst business , which is growing fast thanks to tightening emissions standards around the world .
Last week , Engelhard reported first-quarter net income of Dollars 69m , up19 per cent , on revenues of Dollars 1.5bn , up 43 per cent .
A Reuters poll of analysts yesterday forecast that BASF , which reports first-quarter results on Thursday , would see a 10 per cent increase in revenue .
