BASF swings to loss andfears ' even greater decline '
chemicals
BASF , the world 's largest chemicals company , has been hit by its first quarterly loss in seven years as the economic slump hit demand - a downward trend the German group said was showing no sign of abating .
Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , said chemical consumption had not picked up at the start of the year and that he expected 2009 sales to fall - for the first time since 2002 - and operating income to record " an even greater decline " .
The banking crisis caused economic turmoil in late 2008 , leading BASF to report a fourth-quarter sales decline of 2.7 per cent to EUR14.3bn ( $18.3bn ) and a net loss of EUR313m , from net profit of EUR793m the year before .
It is the company 's first loss since late 2001 .
For the full year 2008 , sales rose 7.5 per cent to EUR62.3bn , a result of higher oil prices , while earnings before interest and taxes slipped 11.7 per cent to EUR6.5bn and net profit tumbled 28.4 per cent to EUR2.9bn.
Mr Hambrecht painted a dark picture of conditions on the front line of the real economy .
Demand for chemicals had slumped by as much as 50 per cent in areas such as car making as consumers all over the world tightened their belts .
BASF expected the big industrialised economies to shrink by 1.6 per cent over the year , Mr Hambrecht said , a number that suggested that prospects in the second half of the year might be better than the acute declines being seen at the moment .
But he said forecasts were so tricky it was impossible to say if the world could shake off recession this year .
" And even if things were to improve to hit zero growth by the end of the year , the battle would not have been won , " he added .
He said demand could soon pick up when manufacturers had used up material they had in stock - only to sag again once inventories were replenished .
Such starts and slumps could add to economic uncertainty , he warned .
The Ludwigshafen-based company has already taken action .
In November it asked one-quarter of its 95,000 workers to take holidays and days owed and in January put about 3,000 workers on part-time hours .
It is also in the process of cutting its workforce by 1,500 and Mr Hambrecht said BASF would not shy away from closing plants in Europe , the US or Asia if output fell to uneconomic levels .
He added that he was constantly in touch with employees ' representatives about possible next steps .
Credit : By Gerrit Wiesmann in Ludwigshafen
