BASF hopes to double profits to EUR23bn by 2020
chemicals
BASF , the world 's biggest chemical company by sales , struck a confident tone in spite of the risks to the global economy as it unveiled a new strategy to double profits by 2020 on strong emerging markets demand , innovative products and a cost-savings programme .
The German company , whose stock has fallen by 11 per cent over the past year , said it was also considering reviving a share buy-back programme .
Kurt Bock , who took over as chief executive in May , acknowledged that the timing of its long-term strategy presentation - amid financial turmoil , fears of a break-up of the eurozone and another recession - was far from ideal .
The company cautioned in October that demand growth had continued to slow as cautious clients delayed orders and reduced inventories .
Still , BASF 's chief executive argued that Europe would " get its act together at the end of the day " and said the company was not planning for the euro 's demise .
BASF now expects to achieve EUR115bn ( $153bn ) in sales by 2020 , compared with a previous forecast of EUR90bn and last year 's level of EUR63.9bn.
Emerging markets are set to account for 45 per cent of sales in 2020 compared with 34 per cent last year .
The chemical maker also wants to achieve earnings before interest , taxation , depreciation and amortisation of EUR23bn by 2020 , compared with EUR11.1bn last year , equating to a compound annual growth rate of 7.5 per cent .
The company will invest up to EUR35bn between now and 2020 to increase organic growth and more than a third of this investment will be in emerging markets .
BASF has profited recently from its Verbund system - an integrated production system that harnesses the by-products of chemical production to create new materials , delivering big savings in raw materials and energy costs .
Under Jurgen Hambrecht , BASF 's previous chief executive , the company sought to move away from commoditised , cyclical businesses to focus more on specialised , close-to-customer products .
The company also made several large acquisitions including Ciba , a speciality chemical maker and Cognis , a maker of cosmetics and personal care products .
Mr Bock said BASF will continue to move its portfolio downstream by focusing on materials designed to fulfil specific functions , for example , in lithium ion batteries for electric vehicles .
BASF said it is targeting EUR500m in sales from products for electromobility batteries by 2020 .
BASF said a new cost-cutting programme , dubbed STEP , would deliver EUR1bn in annual savings by 2015 .
It will focus on reducing fixed cuts , improving margins and sourcing .
The shares rose by 2 per cent to EUR50.56.
Credit : By Chris Bryant in Ludwigshafen
