BASF wields axe as global slump hits demand
chemicals
BASF , the world 's largest chemicals company , said yesterday that the global slump in manufacturing had dragged its first-quarter sales down by a quarter and wiped two-thirds off net profit , forcing it to broaden cost and job cuts .
Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , said demand for products had continued to fall this year .
There was " currently no sign of a reversal of this trend " , he said , signalling that the second quarter could be even tougher for the group .
As a result , BASF said it would crank up its restructuring programme , closing or selling sites that were not competitive .
The chemicals company said that it also intended to increase the number of planned jobs cuts from its global workforce of 97,000 by a third , to about 2,000 employees .
In spite of the acquisition of speciality chemicals group Ciba and oil company Revus , Mr Hambrecht said sales would fall below the EUR62.3bn ( $82.3bn ) seen in 2008 .
Operating income would come in " sharply " below last year 's EUR6.9bn.
He said it was becoming " extremely difficult " to achieve operating income to match capital costs - some EUR3.5bn at assumed interest of 9 per cent - and a pay-out of EUR1.95 per share for 2008 would be hard to match .
The German company said " drastic " sales declines in its plastics and chemicals units pushed quarterly revenues 23 per cent lower to EUR12.2bn.
Net profit slipped 68 per cent to EUR375m as prices for its products eroded .
The company reacted quickly last autumn when the global financial crisis spiralled into an economic slump .
It closed or made idle production facilities for the first time in more than five years , making 7,000 employees work fewer hours .
When consumers tightened their belts and stopped buying cars or houses as the recession took hold , BASF suffered a slump in demand for products including plastics and construction chemicals , as manufacturers made fewer products and used up their inventories .
With sales volumes of some BASF products falling by as much as 50 per cent , Mr Hambrecht said the process of shrinking capacity to match demand had proved " exceedingly difficult and painful " for both executives and workers at the group .
He said that there were signs that some of BASF 's customers were again buying its products .
He said , however , that he did not consider " temporary topping up of inventories in some regions " as proof of a sustainable upturn .
BASF said that less demand for chemicals and plastics saw first-quarter sales in Asia , the manufacturing hub for many industries , fall 34 per cent .
North American revenues fell 26 per cent and those in Europe 21 per cent , it said .
The company said that its energy division profited from higher natural gas prices .
Its agricultural chemicals unit benefited from higher sales .
But it warned that these positive trends looked set to fade in the next few months .
www.ft.com / chemicals
Credit : By Gerrit Wiesmann in Frankfurt
