BHP 's potash bid puts M&A back on mining agenda
News analysis ; Group 's $39bn move heralds merger battle as offer is rejected by Canadian producer , writes William MacNamara
BHP Billiton 's enchantment with potash , an obscure but vital commodity , has yielded the biggest takeover bid in the mining sector since BHP abandoned its hostile bid for Rio Tinto in 2008 .
In what appears to be the opening shot in a new mining merger battle , BHP tabled a preliminary offer of $130 per share for Canada 's PotashCorp , the world 's biggest potash producer .
That values the equity of Potash Corp , whose board immediately rejected the offer , at $39bn .
" Following Monday 's Vedanta-Cairn deal , M&A is now clearly back on the agenda for miners with robust balance sheets , " said mining analysts at Liberum Capital , referring to Indian miner Vedanta 's plans to buy a majority stake in an oil producer for up to $9.6bn.
The offer marks BHP 's return to large-scale M&A activity after a hiatus of nearly two years .
Its reluctance to make opportunistic acquisitions in 2009 was notable because the company held over $10bn in cash .
Its cash pile now stands at $8.4bn.
Last year as rivals struggled with debt , BHP was criticised for having too much unused cash .
The Melbourne-based miner defended itself by repeating that it was only interested in " long-life , low-cost , tier one assets " .
PotashCorp now appears to fulfil those requirements .
Potash is a raw ingredient of agricultural fertilisers in the same way that iron ore - a core BHP commodity - is the raw material for steel .
By acquiring the world 's biggest potash producer , BHP would be taking a bet that farmers will need more fertilisers to meet rising food demand as incomes rise across the developing world .
According to PotashCorp , consumption of meat in China has risen sevenfold in the past 30 years and fruit and vegetable consumption tenfold , despite a limited base of arable land .
Over the past two years BHP has repeatedly made its case for entering the mining side of the fertiliser business , saying that potash was the sector in which it was most interested .
Rumours of a possible PotashCorp bid have persisted .
Few analysts were surprised at the offer .
But some were concerned that the bid ran against the " go it alone " strategy in fertilisers that BHP has espoused over the past year .
In January BHP agreed to buy Athabasca Potash for C$341m .
Athabasca owned early-stage potash assets in Saskatchewan near Jansen , BHP 's flagship potash development .
BHP said that it would develop these assets jointly to establish a leading position in fertilisers without needing to buy a major producer .
" This is quite a backflip , " said one analyst who asked not to be named .
" The finance director was crystal clear that they had a better greenfield option in Athabasca and Jansen and that they did not want to do a big acquisition . "
PotashCorp 's immediate rejection sets the stage for a potentially lengthy battle .
" PotashCorp believes that BHP Billiton intentionally launched its proposal just as the fertiliser industry emerges from an unprecedented demand decline associated with the global slowdown in order to seize the value that PotashCorp is posed to create for its shareholders , " the company said yesterday .
According to analysts at Evolution , the bid values PotashCorp at just over 24 times forecast earnings for 2010 , against a peak of 55 times that the shares reached in 2008 .
Potash shares jumped by more than a quarter from $112 to $142 yesterday , suggesting that BHP may need to return with a higher price to win over investors .
The rebound in fertiliser demand is now pronounced .
PotashCorp , which has net debt of about $3.4bn , saw pre-tax profits in the first half of the year rise from $452m to $1.28bn.
" We estimate BHP could pay up to $60bn in cash before a deal would become earnings neutral , " said Liberum analysts .
" But we can not see BHP being forced to pay such a premium given the negligible interloper risk . "
Any interlopers or rival bidders may find Potash Corp less palatable after the board passed a poison pill " shareholder rights plan " , which is designed to prevent anyone from buying any more than 20 per cent of the company .
Lex , Page 12
Credit : By William MacNamara
