BHP 's takeover options curtailed
Australia 's foreign investment regulations will limit BHP Billiton 's takeover options in pursuing Rio Tinto even though BHP is based in the country , Peter Costello , the Australian treasurer , said yesterday .
" One of the requirements of our foreign investment policy would be that BHP is to have its headquarters in Australia , " he told reporters in Perth .
" That is a condition I put in place . "
Marius Kloppers , BHP chief executive , this week said his company would retain its headquarters in Melbourne in the event it merged with Rio and that any suggestion of BHP moving its head office would cause an uproar in the country which is due to hold national elections in a little over a week .
BHP 's proposal to ex-change three of its shares for every one of Rio 's , valuing Rio at Pounds 68.8bn ( Dollars 143bn ) , has been rejected by Rio 's board .
Mr Costello said the merger of the two groups , both dual-listed in Australia and London , would have to clear competition hurdles and he declined to clarify whether the proposal raised concerns .
" That would have to be assessed , " he said .
Despite rejection from Rio 's board , BHP is contacting Rio shareholders to gauge interest .
BHP on Monday pledged to buy back Dollars 30bn worth of shares in the enlarged unit in an attempt to win support from investors .
Standard & Poor 's yesterday said it had placed BHP on credit watch with negative implications amid the prospect of a revised bid .
BHP has been in talks with a small syndicate of banks to secure a debt package worth more than Dollars 70bn .
Those facilities would be needed to finance the share buyback but BHP also believes that Rio Tinto 's Dollars 40bn financing deal to buy Alcan included a change- of-control clause and may need refinancing .
The ratings agency highlighted potential credit risks of a deal including managing the huge combined entity , regulatory and competition issues and the funding structure .
S&P placed BHP 's A-plus / A-1 ratings on credit watch with negative implication while putting Rio Tinto 's BBB+/A-2 credit rating and associated debt on watch with positive implications .
Rio shares dropped 72 cents to ADollars 139 in Sydney yesterday , while BHP rose 10 cents to ADollars 41.80.
