BHP boosts buy-back plan to $10bn
mining ; Record first-half profits reported ; Iron ore , coal and copper lift results
BHP Billiton has expanded its share buy-back scheme to $10bn after reporting record first-half profits on the back of boom prices for iron ore , coal and copper .
The strong operating result follows a tough few months for the Anglo-Australian miner which has faced pressure to hand back more cash to shareholders after it failed to complete two large transactions .
Its long campaign to combine its iron ore operations in the Pilbara region of Western Australia with those of Rio Tinto collapsed in October due to widespread industry opposition .
Weeks later it was forced to drop its $39bn hostile bid for Canada 's PotashCorp after failing to win local government backing .
BHP 's decision to expand its buy-back programme from $4.8bn to $10bn comes soon after Rio said it would buy back $5bn of its shares after its full-year pre-tax profits surged by 162 per cent to $20.6bn.
Xstrata this month more than tripled its dividend as its full-year pre-tax profits rose from $1.53bn to $6.61bn.
Marius Kloppers , chief executive , said trading conditions for the mining industry had been particularly good during the six months ending in December , helping to boost BHP 's operating cash flow to " close to an all-time record " of $12.2bn.
He also acknowledged it would be difficult for BHP to undertake large acquisitions .
" At the current moment where price levels are it makes people who hold those assets relatively ambitious about sales levels , " he said .
" Putting that together you have a clear take away on our priorities , particularly given the share buy-back programme . "
BHP said its debt free balance sheet would support organic investments exceeding $80bn over five years year , including iron ore and coal projects in Australia , copper in Chile and potash in Canada .
The company refused to comment this week on diplomatic cables released by WikiLeaks to Australia 's Fairfax Media which claimed that Mr Kloppers believed he derailed China state-owned Chinalco 's $19.5bn investment in Rio Tinto in 2009 .
The report said SouthAfrican born Mr Kloppers also feared espionage from China , complained that doing business in Melbourne was akin to " playing poker when everyone can see your cards " , and described himself as " only nominally Australian " .
Mr Kloppers did not directly answer a question on the report during a media call but said fears about surveillance were less of a concern after BHP pushed hard for shorter term market based pricing for commodities .
Pre-tax profits rose from $8.88bn last time to $14.1bn in the half year to December .
Revenues increased from $22.2bn to $32.4bn.
Underlying earnings before interest tax depreciation and amortisation hit a record , up 60 per cent to $17.3bn.
Credit : By Peter Smith in Sydney
