BHP chief launches attack against Rio
By REBECCA BREAM and PETER SMITH
BHP Billiton 's takeover battle for Rio Tinto moved into increasingly hostile territory yesterday when BHP 's chief executive launched an outspoken attack on his mining rival 's past underperformance and growth prospects .
In an interview with the Financial Times at BHP 's Melbourne headquarters , Marius Kloppers rounded on Rio 's chief , saying : " Tom Albanese has been comprehensively outperformed ( by BHP ) in terms of volume growth , earnings per share growth , total return for shareholders and share price performance .
" On every metric I can envisage they ( Rio ) have been beaten .
They have missed the boat on China , they are missing the boat on energy .
It must be terrible ( for them ) that every quarter , BHP outperforms , and that has been the case for seven years , " Mr Kloppers said , adding that he was incredulous that Mr Albanese criticised BHP 's petroleum business last week when the oil price was close to Dollars 115 a barrel .
" Rio are energy-short and they will not benefit from the 80 per cent margin in that ( oil ) business .
I do n't know what Tom was thinking , " Mr Kloppers said .
Both sides have escalated their war of words in the weeks since Rio rejected BHP 's offer of 3.4 of its shares for each one of Rio 's , in a takeover worth Dollars 147bn .
Both are attempting to win the backing of large and small shareholders , and Mr Kloppers and his advisers have become increasingly irritated by information put into the public domain by Rio .
In its results presentation in February , Rio included a slide showing that its production volume would grow at a compound annual rate of 8.6 per cent until 2015 , more than double the 3.9 per cent it forecast for BHP .
" That is not a scorecard , it is a wish list , " Mr Kloppers said .
Rio Tinto said it was " completely confident " in its growth claims and said that all the data had been verified .
The comments came on the eve of BHP 's quarterly production report , due out today .
