BHP bucks weaker trend on Chinese stake-building talk
BHP Billiton bucked the weaker trend in London as brokers picked up on a story in the Australian press that claimed China was looking to raid the market and buy more than 9 per cent of the mining company .
The stock rose 4.6 per cent to Pounds 17.62.
The article , in The Australian newspaper , said the Chinese authorities had yet to decide which state-owned institution or company would be used to purchase the stake but it would not be Chinalco , the vehicle used to snap up 9 per cent of Rio Tinto , up 1 per cent to Pounds 59.01.
Rio Tinto is currently the subject of a bid from BHP which , based on last night 's closing price , was worth Pounds 61.41 a share .
In the wider market , leading shares ended lower as the first quarter reporting season got off to a poor start with profits warnings from TomTom and US chipmaker AMD .
The FTSE 100 fell 24.6 points , or 0.4 per cent , to 5,990.2 , while the FTSE 250 dropped 135.8 points , or 1.3 per cent , to 10,108.7.
The mid-cap index was dragged down by weakness in the housebuilding sector after a survey from the Halifax showed house prices had fallen 2.5 per cent in March , having declined by 0.3 per cent in February .
That news saw Barratt Developments fall 4.4 per cent to 377p and Taylor Wimpey shed 4.2 per cent to 170p .
Among the food retailers , Tesco eased 2.1 per cent to 401p after Piper Jaffray analyst Mike Dennis warned earnings forecasts could be cut by 5 per cent after the UK 's biggest food retailer delivered full-year results on April 15 .
Mr Dennis also said Tesco 's fledging US business , Fresh & Easy , was set to face competition from Wal-Mart .
He said : " Poor weekly Fresh & Easy sales rates could be compounded by Wal-Mart 's opening of its new 15,000 sq ft convenience stores , called Marketside .
" If WalMart 's ' Marketside ' stores prove successful they would help WalMart get a stronger foothold in the difficult Californian / West Coast grocery market where their larger format stores have found planning more difficult . "
In the same sector , J Sainsbury rose 1.6 per cent to 359 1/2p after a late flurry of buying , seemingly on stake building talk .
Banking stocks were also mixed .
Alliance & Leicester , the most shorted company in the FTSE 100 , with 24.5 per cent of its share capital on loan , according to DataExplorers , crept up 1.1 per cent to 531 1/2p .
Traders said the rise had been triggered by speculation that Santander , the Spanish owner of Abbey , had rekindled its interest in A&L .
Santander held abortive takeover talks with A&L at the end of last year .
Meanwhile , HBOS slipped 1.9 per cent to 549 1/2p in the wake of the weak housing survey while Royal Bank of Scotland eased 0.5 per cent to 374 1/4p after Cazenove reiterated its " underweight " recommendation .
Cazenove said : " We see downside risk to our estimates of both earnings and capital " .
The broker added that a sale of Direct Line would be one way for RBS to bolster its weak balance sheet .
Cazenove was also behind the weakness in Sage .
Shares in the accountancy software company fell 5.5 per cent to 196.6p after the broker said that half-year figures could disappoint .
Cazenove said any benefit from favourable currency movements would be offset by weaker growth and margins in the US .
Among the mid-caps , Ashtead , the industrial plant hire company , lost 4.1 per cent to 59 1/4p after Investec Securities slashed its earnings forecasts citing an in-depth analysis of the US non-residential construction market .
However , house broker ABN Amro said it believed the US market had not changed since the company issued an updatejust over a month ago .
It also said Ashtead traded at a large discount to its US peers and there was still Pounds 20m of additional profit potential to come out of its Nationsrent acquisition .
Retailers Halfords , off 1.8 per cent at 293 1/4p and DSG International , down 2.7 per cent at 63 1/4p , were marked lower in the wake of the profits warning from TomTom , the Dutch navigation device maker .
Last week , Garmin , a rival sat-nav company , also warned of slowing sales .
