BHP reaffirms iron ore link-up with Rio
mining ; ' Nothing close ' to rivalling plan 's value ; Group profits beat consensus forecasts
BHP Billiton said yesterday that no potential acquisition target offers anything close to the value of its proposed iron ore venture with Rio Tinto , its nearest rival .
In its half-year results to December 31 , the cash-rich miner continued to set itself apart from the hard-hit mining sector with profits higher than consensus forecasts .
It paid a dividend of 42 cents per share , one cent higher than the interim period last year .
Earnings per share more than doubled from 47 cents to 110.3 cents .
BHP 's net cash balance of $8.4bn remained plump , although lower than the $10.8bn on June 30 .
The group drew criticism from analysts who think BHP should use the cash to buy a large company .
Names such as Potash Corp of Canada , Woodside Petroleum of Australia and BG of the UK have been mentioned .
But Alex Vanselow , chief finance officer , said that in the wider market " nothing comes close " to rivalling the value of combining Rio and BHP 's iron ore operations in the Pilbara region of Western Australia .
That proposal , first announced in June 2009 , is under scrutiny by European competition officials .
" Rio was the only one worth [ pursuing ] " , Mr Vanselow said , referring to a hostile takeover battle that BHP abandoned in November 2008 .
" We tried that .
What was the part of Rio that was worth the most ?
The Pilbara .
That is what we 're getting . "
Rio and BHP expect approval for their joint venture company , whose value has been estimated at $116bn , in the second half of 2010 .
If it is approved in the face of strong opposition from steelmakers , BHP will owe Rio an " equalisation payment " estimated at about $5.8bn.
That is one reason why so much cash remains on its books , said Marius Kloppers , chief executive .
" We are a relatively conservative value proposition , " Mr Kloppers said in a conference call .
" Given the relative growth in our capital expenditure , the bill we have got to pay Rio and the relatively volatile outlook on the market , we are satisfied about where we are . "
The group 's share buy-back programme was not reinstated , and Mr Vanselow said he would buy back shares when it was clear that the global economy had recovered .
Base metals , iron ore and coking coal businesses performed ahead of market estimates , while the petroleum division disappointed due to lower oil and natural gas prices .
BHP 's net debt stood at $7.9bn at the end of 2009 and its gearing ratio was 15 per cent .
By contrast Xstrata , a smaller mining group , on Monday revealed net debt of $12.3bn and gearing of 26 per cent , about the gearing that analysts expect for Rio Tinto when it reports today .
BHP and Rio 's key argument for their joint venture is that it is " operations-only " .
They would jointly own a company that would control about 40 per cent of the global seaborne iron ore market but would sell the iron ore separately .
Pre-tax profits rose from $6.9bn last time to $8.9bn in the half year to December .
Revenues fell to $22.2bn from $25.4bn.
BHP shares fell 1.5 per cent to pound(s)18.57.
Credit : By William MacNamara in London and Peter Smith in Sydney
