BHP and Rio dive as commodities feel weight of debt fears
LONDON
BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto were hit yesterday as mining stocks led the FTSE 100 to its sharpest daily fall since November .
The miners dived as sovereign debt fears weighed on commodity markets and lifted the dollar .
Dealers also noted an Australian tax review due on Sunday .
According to recent reports , the government will propose scrapping the current state-based royalty system in favour of a 40 per cent federal rent tax for minerals such as iron ore .
This would cut annual earnings for Rio and BHP by as much as 30 per cent and 19 per cent , respectively , Merrill Lynch forecast .
" While debate surrounding this issue is expected to be vigorous - with strong push-back expected from the mining industry - we suspect that we should ultimately brace for a larger future tax grab than is currently the case , " said Merrill analyst Peter O'Connor .
Rio closed down 5.2 per cent to 36.07 , its biggest daily fall in six months , while BHP slid 4.2 per cent to pound(s)20.61.
That was in spite of HSBC analysts arguing that BHP should revive its $66bn bid for Rio , which it abandoned at the height of the financial crisis in 2008 .
The pair 's iron ore joint venture looks certain to be blocked by regulators , which could spur BHP into revisiting the takeover plan , analyst Andrew Keen said .
" From a BHP perspective , the acquisition of Rio is as workable and as strategically justifiable as it was in 2007 , if not more so . "
The FTSE 100 closed down 2.6 per cent , falling 150.33 points to 5,603.52.
Just two blue-chip stocks ended the session higher .
Financials mirrored the market trend with Old Mutual losing 5.1 per cent to 112 3/4 p and Legal & General declining 4.5 per cent to 356p .
Man Group , which reported a gain for its benchmark fund after the market closed , dropped 6.2 per cent to 247 1/2 p.
Prudential outperformed , falling just 1.1 per cent to 540p following reports that Capital Group , its largest shareholder , had been sounding out institutions about a possible break-up bid for the insurer .
" We can see the logic for the argument in so much as the acquisition price of AIA implies that Pru 's own Asian operation is seriously undervalued , " said Panmure Gordon analyst Barrie Cornes , who put a break-up value of Prudential at about 955p per share .
However , he saw the reports as " gamesmanship " ahead of next month 's shareholder vote , which he said was still likely to approve the deal .
Liberty International fell 3.5 per cent to 488 1/4 p after Societe Generale added the stock to its " sell " list .
Both divisions of the property company will be at risk of Footsie relegation after a demerger next month , it said .
J Sainsbury fell 3.1 per cent to 340 1/2 p after Oriel Securities downgraded to " reduce " , telling clients that it was " baffled " by the stock 's 10 per cent gain since early February given the poor outlook for growth .
Reckitt Benckiser fell 4.3 per cent to pound(s)34.97 after its first-quarter results showed a surprisingly weak performance in Europe , which dragged sales growth below consensus forecasts .
Royal Dutch Shell stayed inside positive territory , with its B shares rising 0.5 per cent to pound(s)19.22.
JPMorgan Cazenove turned positive on Shell , saying first-quarter results could surprise and downgrades to the 2010 consensus looked to have run their course .
Imperial Tobacco was up 0.3 per cent to pound(s)19.53 after it delivered slightly better-than-expected interim results and new chief executive Alison Cooper provided an upbeat presentation .
Connaught led the mid-cap risers , rallying 9 per cent to 302p .
In-line earnings from the services group helped address concerns about its earnings quality and corporate governance .
Regus , the serviced office provider , climbed 1.3 per cent to 120p after Citigroup started coverage with a " buy " rating and 145p target price .
It argued that 1.1bn people worldwide would be mobile workers by next year and Regus as the sector 's global leader is in a strong position to benefit .
Disappointing sales figures from Premier Foods sent its stock down 11.8 per cent to 26 1/2 p - just half a penny above the price of its its equity issue a year ago .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
