BHP vows Dollars 30bn buy-back if it takes over Rio
By REBECCA BREAM and PETER SMITH
BHP Billiton yesterday pledged to buy back Dollars 30bn of shares if it succeeds in taking over rival mining group Rio Tinto , in a bid to appeal to the target 's investors .
BHP also attempted to soothe fears among steelmakers , especially its customers in China , that the enlarged mining group would wield unrivalled pricing power in the iron ore market .
Rio yesterday repeated its rejection of BHP 's offer of three of its shares for every one Rio share , and said its shareholders supported its rejection .
But in a direct appeal to shareholders , BHP published details of its offer and set out the logic for the takeover , which it said was " unrivalled " .
Marius Kloppers , BHP chief executive , said it would launch a Dollars 30bn share buy-back after completing the deal so that the combined group 's shareholder base would match the location of its assets .
The buy-back would be aimed at UK-listed BHP Billiton shares , rather than Australia-listedshares , in an effort to keep about half of the shareholder base in Australia .
One analyst said BHP was using the prospect of a buy-back to boost its share price and make its offer for Rio look more attractive .
Mr Kloppers denied that a takeover of Rio by BHP was based on a desire to have greater sway over prices in the iron ore market , almost 40 per cent of which would be controlled by the combined entity .
He said that putting together BHP and Rio 's iron ore assets in Western Australia would allow some projects to be accelerated .
The output of iron ore could increase by 10 per cent .
Mr Kloppers declined to say whether BHP was ready to go hostile in its bid for Rio , but said investors might support the deal even if Rio management did not .
" We are getting good feedback that the shareholders understand the value proposition , " he said .
BHP said it could extract Dollars 3.7bn of synergies and increased earnings a year if it took over Rio .
Letters , Page 10 Lex , Page 16 World View , Page 18 BHP 's logic , Page 23 Markets , Page 26-28
