BHP helps power Footsie recovery on talk of BP Gulf bid
LONDON
BHP Billiton was among the gainers yesterday as mining stocks helped power the FTSE 100 to a 2 1/2 -month high .
BHP rose 4.3 per cent to pound(s)20.34 1/2 amid renewed speculation that the group was considering a bid for BP 's Gulf of Mexico oil fields .
This followed the US House of Representatives passing energy legislation that would effectively deter BP from maintaining production levels and freeze it out of bidding for any new drilling leases for seven years .
" The legislation looked like a move by the US government to force a sale of assets , " said Liberum Capital .
" BHP Billiton will be terrifically interested in these assets .
It knows them well as it is BP 's partner in three of the wells ; it has a pristine balance sheet and has so far missed out on M&A post the crisis . "
BHP is under pressure to return cash to shareholders if it can not make an acquisition soon , said Liberum .
However , any oilfield deal with BP would be ambitious and politically sensitive for a non-US company , it said .
ExxonMobil would be the front-runner to buy BP out of the Gulf of Mexico , Liberum continued , " so as and when this is confirmed we 'd expect a relief rally in BHP on an expectation of a large $20bn-plus return of capital . "
BP gained 1.8 per cent to 413 1/2 p , matching a rally among commodity stocks after weak Chinese data lifted hopes that the government would ease back on measures aimed at cooling economic growth .
Tullow Oil rose 5.6 per cent to pound(s)13.00 and Xstrata was up 5.9 per cent to pound(s)10.75 ahead of half-year results due today .
Vedanta Resources rallied 5.2 per cent to pound(s)25.68 following last week 's lower-than-expected figures and caution that two key projects would be delayed .
Credit Suisse stuck with " outperform " advice and a pound(s)34.40 target , arguing that the current price failed to capture any volume growth beyond next year .
Randgold Resources was only one of three Footsie fallers , losing 1.7 per cent to pound(s)56.35 after it cut 2010 production guidance due to growing pains at its flagship mine .
Overall , the FTSE 100 jumped 2.7 per cent , or 139.09 points , to 5397.11 after earnings from HSBC provided a bright start to the bank earnings season .
Its shares were up 5.3 per cent to 680p , while Lloyds Banking Group gained 4.6 per cent to 72 1/2 p and Royal Bank of Scotland gained 4.3 per cent to 52p .
Testing group Intertek was up 6.2 per cent to pound(s)16.74 , after delivering better-than-expected interim earnings and raising full-year sales guidance .
British Airways jumped 5.2 per cent to 231p as brokers including Citigroup and RBS raised target prices in response to the airline 's results last week .
Progress on the Iberia merger and the pension could push the shares towards 330p , RBS argued .
Housebuilders led the mid-cap risers , with Taylor Wimpey rallying 7.6 per cent to 28 1/2 p and Redrow up 6.2 per cent to 113 3/4 p.
Deutsche Bank said the sector was " too cheap " in spite of a " restrained " outlook for house prices , as the recent slowdown in the UK was nothing more than a return of seasonality .
The broker also argued that average selling prices should recover over the next 12-18 months as the new-build mix shifts from apartments to houses .
Beazley gained 0.8 per cent to 121p .
KBC Peel Hunt said after a meeting with management that the Lloyd 's insurer could return at least $33m of surplus capital to shareholders .
Yell missed out , holding steady at 24p after UBS downgraded from " buy " to hold " .
" With downgrades continuing , and the macro outlook remaining highly uncertain , there is a significant risk that [ debt ] covenants once again become an issue , " it said .
Among the fallers , outsourcing group Xchanging dived 12.5 per cent to 175p on a warning that sales would miss expectations .
Ahead of results due tomorrow , an Investec downgrade to " hold " led Premier Foods lower by 2.1 per cent to 18 1/2 p.
" Our confidence in Premier 's trading prospects and leadership is continuing to ebb , " it said .
" So is our confidence that Premier 's major shareholders will turn activist and interventionist in order to recover value for shareholders as a whole . "
Credit : By Bryce Elder
