BHP points to inventory adjustments
mining
Commodity buying patterns in both China and the developed economies of Europe and North America point to a modest improvement in demand , according to BHP Billiton , the world 's largest mining company .
In its quarterly production report , BHP , whose large scale and array of commodities make it a bellwether for resources demand , was cautious in painting any broad picture of supply and demand across metals and regions .
The outlook was distorted , BHP said , by large adjustments in inventory levels , as some economies restock commodities and others destock .
But in China , BHP noted , " inventory build is essentially complete " .
This implies that the country 's recent build-up of metals might be on the verge of stabilising at a more moderate rate , sustained by underlying demand .
China 's inventory build-up has been linked to the steady rise in the copper price in recent months .
In North America , Europe and Japan , " we are now seeing evidence that re-stocking has commenced " , BHP said .
These countries , BHP suggests , are replenishing their depleted stocks in anticipation of future demand , much as China has done in recent months .
In the quarter from April to June , BHP 's iron ore production fell 10 per cent to 27m tonnes compared with the same quarter last year .
This compares with rival Rio Tinto 's 8 per cent second-quarter rise to 45.1m tonnes .
Iron ore production dropped because of expansion projects as well as a series of accidents and a safety review that is causing cutbacks , BHP said .
The drop was in line with analyst expectations .
BHP and Rio are seeking regulatory clearance to combine their Pilbara iron ore operations in Western Australia .
The venture would become the world 's largest producer of seaborne iron ore and was valued by UBS at up to $126bn ( pound(s)77bn ) .
In the 12 months to June , BHP 's iron ore output rose 2 per cent to a record 114.4m tonnes , although that result was below its forecast earlier this year for output of 130m tonnes .
Copper production continued to slide because of problems at the star Escondida mine in Chile .
But this was offset by improved output at the Olympic Dam mine in Australia .
Production of 307,000 tonnes marked a 21 per cent drop year-on-year , but a 9 per cent gain on the previous quarter , and the annual output of 1.2m tonnes was a record .
The company will report full-year results on August 12 .
Reuters ' consensus forecasts see revenue dropping from $57.8bn to $52.3bn , and pre-tax profits falling from $24.2bn to $12.3bn.
BHP shares fell 27 1/2 p to pound(s)15.03 in London .
Credit : By William MacNamara in London and Peter Smith in Sydney
