BHP claims unity over Rio bid
MINING ; Chairman faces questions over job ; AGM 's surprise at demise of merger
BHP Billiton has insisted its board voted unanimously to abandon the pursuit of rival Rio Tinto in spite of signs that its chief executive and chairman encountered dissent from non-executive directors , led by David Morgan , the former chief of Westpac Banking Corp.
Mr Morgan was described as the man who " led the charge to stop the Rio deal " by one shareholder at the Anglo-Australian mining group 's annual meeting in Melbourne yesterday .
At the meeting , Don Argus , the chairman , faced repeated questioning about whether he would step down next year and be replaced by Mr Morgan .
" I am not going to speculate on the timing of any replacements of anyone , " Mr Argus said .
" I have been elected for 12 months " .
Analysts and some shareholders were surprised at BHP 's abrupt U-turn on the Rio takeover given that Mr Argus , and Marius Kloppers , the chief executive and architect of the deal , had promoted it heavily for the best part of a year .
" I am stunned that two people that were so driven on doing this transaction could change their minds so quickly , " said one shareholder .
The Australian Financial Review said Mr Morgan had " played the role of archconservative " in the run-up to the board meeting , and was backed by John Schubert , chairman of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia , " against other more gung-ho directors " .
BHP dismissed the suggestion but said its board discussions were often robust .
" It was a tough decision for the management team , " Mr Kloppers told the meeting .
" The board was unanimous in their view that completing the transaction was no longer in the best interests of our shareholders . "
BHP highlighted the extent to which markets had moved , particularly in the past month .
It said a combined BHP-Rio would have had a market value of $84bn on November 21 and net debt of $78bn , including $30bn for a promised post-takeover share buy-back .
That compares with a combined market value of $298bn and net debt of $87bn on February 5 , the day it increased its offer to 3.4 of its shares for every one of Rio's .
Rio 's share price had been trading below the level of BHP 's proposed offer since May .
Although this boosted BHP management 's confidence that it would win the hostile battle , it also provoked opposition from some BHP shareholders , especially in Australia , who thought that the offer was too generous .
BHP 's management has also been criticised for underestimating the European Commission 's objections to the bid for Rio .
The Commission 's competition regulator was concerned that a combined BHP-Rio would control too much of the iron ore and coking coal markets , and to win approval for its bid BHP would have had to sell several large mines .
BHP admitted when it dropped its bid for Rio on Tuesday that it would have been near impossible to get a good price for these assets in the current tough markets .
Mr Kloppers said yesterday that BHP had no plans to cut iron ore production .
Credit : By Peter Smith in Sydney and Rebecca Bream in London
