BHP buy-back portends slew of shares repurchases
Companies devote much energy to persuading investors to buy their shares .
So there is a contradiction implicit in share buy-back programmes of the kind pursued by BHP Billiton and GlaxoSmithKline .
The mining group has raised the target for its buy-back scheme from $4.8bn to $10bn ( pound(s)6.2bn ) .
The pharmaceuticals company plans to repurchase pound(s)2bn of shares this year .
Perhaps they should employ disinvestor relations officers to hype the advantages of dumping their stock .
There is another cognitive dissonance embodied in a buy-back .
A well-run business would surely have better purposes for investors ' capital than returning it .
BHP Billiton is less challenged here than GSK .
The Melbourne-based group will invest eight times the value of its share repurchases in lucrative mining .
Returns from drug discovery have , meanwhile , diminished in parallel with the scope for discovering new blockbusters .
Philosophical objections aside , buy-backs make a lot of sense financially .
Whittling down a company 's equity base automatically increases earnings per share .
Buy-backs also spare remaining shareholders the tax liabilities created by dividend payments .
So we should see plenty more this year as surging profits generate spare cash .
The last peak was in 2007 , when buy-backs worth pound(s)5.7bn were completed , according to Thomson Reuters .
The total for 2010 was just pound(s)1.1bn.
Repurchases are more popular with big companies than smaller ones because their larger pools of equity are less prone to price-depressing illiquidity .
Growing from a low base , motor insurer Admiral utilised special dividends as an alternative means of returning spare cash to shareholders .
One-off pay-backs , in whatever form , are a good way to shed cash without unsettling long-term investors , a breed as prone to nervous shocks as neuralgic maiden aunts .
Tweaking the dividend is a more dangerous policy .
BHP has not cut its own dividend , which it describes as " an annuity " , since the Great Depression .
Finally , chief executives love buy-backs for one discreditably egotistical reason .
Usually it is their lot to whine impotently about how low the shares are .
Buy-backs let them to do something about it .
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com Game : tim.bradshaw@ft.com
