BHP looks to expand through acquisitions
Chip Goodyear , chief executive of BHP Billiton , said yesterday that he would invest the group 's heavy cash flows primarily in expansion opportunities , including acquisitions and organic growth projects .
Investors expecting a special dividend or a new round of share buy-backs were disappointed and , in spite of BHP unveiling record full-year profit , its stock dropped 4 per cent to 804p .
Turnover at BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest mining company , rose 28 per cent to Dollars 31.8bn ( Pounds 17.7bn ) in the year to June 30 , thanks to higher volumes in many products and rising commodity prices .
Pre-tax profit for the year was Dollars 8.7bn , up 92 per cent , in line with expectations .
Mr Goodyear said he would use most of the group 's cash flows to invest in growth opportunities , either through acquisitions or new mining projects .
The second priority would be preserving a stable balance sheet , with gearing between 35 and 40 per cent , and the third priority was returning cash to shareholders .
Those investors hoping BHP would return some cash were frustrated but Chris Lynch , chief financial officer , defended the company 's record in rewarding shareholders .
" We led the way in buy-backs , " he said .
BHP purchased Dollars 1.8bn of its Australia-listed shares in a discounted off-market buy-back last November .
BHP also re-based its dividend at its half-year results in February , said Mr Lynch .
The group yesterday declared a final dividend of 14.5 cents , making a total of 28 cents , up 7.7 per cent , payable from earnings per share of 104.5 cents ( 54.3 cents ) .
Profit at BHP has been driven by strong demand for iron ore , coal and copper from China , where rapid industrialisation is taking place .
China is now BHP 's largest customer , with 12.6 per cent of sales .
BHP 's carbon steel materials division , which includes its iron ore operations , was the company 's star with profit doubled to Dollars 2.8bn.
The results include two months of the new iron ore contract price , which is 71.5 per cent higher than the previous contract , so the division is expected to yield even better profit in the coming year .
