BHP ends $39bn pursuit of Potash
mining ; Miner reveals scale of undertakings ; Offer had $250m performance bond
BHP Billiton has formally ended its three-month pursuit of Saskatchewan 's PotashCorp after failing to secure the Canadian government 's approval for its hostile $39bn bid .
The Australian miner coupled the announcement with details of undertakings it had made to Canada in support of the bid , which it described as " unparalleled in substance , scope and duration " .
They included posting a $250m ( pound(s)155m ) performance bond to assure the government that it would not renege on the commitments , as several other high-profile foreign investors have been accused of doing in recent years .
Tony Clement , Canada 's industry minister , blocked the acquisition on November 3 , saying he was not satisfied that it was likely to be of " net benefit " to Canada , as required by Ottawa 's foreign investment law .
Under the law , BHP had 30 days to make additional representations but Mr Clement made it clear that the government was unlikely to change its mind .
He has said he will disclose full reasons for the decision at the end of the 30-day period .
The withdrawal marks another costly deal failure for BHP , which in 2008 walked away from its hostile attempt to buy rival miner Rio Tinto .
The two companies last month also scrapped a proposed iron ore joint venture in the face of regulatory opposition .
BHP said it would record costs of $350m relating to its pursuit of PotashCorp , $250m of which was for the $45bn in debt financing that its banks had organised .
While BHP said it would restart its share buy-back programme - it has $4.2bn of its $13bn programme left - people familiar with the miner 's thinking said its acquisition strategy remained unchanged and that it would continue to look for opportunities to diversify , both by commodity and geography .
Marius Kloppers , BHP 's chief executive , said in a statement the company had " an unparalleled portfolio of tier one assets , which we believe can sustain decades of increased production " .
The failure of the bid for PotashCorp is a bitter blow for the two companies ' legion of banks and other advisers .
In a year that has seen sluggish mergers and acquisition activity , the deal would have been by far the largest .
Mr Clement said in a statement on Sunday that the government " recognises . . . that there may be ways to improve the [ foreign investment ] review process " .
He added that " we welcome foreign investment for all the benefits it brings , including new ideas , sources of capital and job creation " .
Besides the performance bond , BHP said it had undertaken to spend $450m on exploration and development over the next five years , in addition to work on the potential Jansen Lake mine in Saskatchewan .
It would have spent a further $370m on infrastructure projects , listed its shares on the Toronto stock exchange and set up its global potash headquarters in Saskatoon .
Credit : By Bernard Simon in Toronto and Helen Thomas in New York
