BHP vows to continue seeking big takeovers
Mining ; Failed deals have cost $900m since 2007 ; Investors call for buy-back extension
BHP Billiton said it would not be diverted from a strategy of pursuing transformational acquisitions in spite of its failure in three consecutive deals , including this week 's aborted $39bn ( pound(s ) 24.6bn ) hostile takeover of Canada 's PotashCorp .
At a shareholder meeting in Perth on Tuesday , Jac Nasser , BHP chairman , defended the Anglo-Australian miner 's management team led by Marius Kloppers , chief executive , who has faced criticism for the cost of failed deals and wasting management time .
BHP has incurred almost $900m in costs for failed deals since Mr Kloppers took the helm in 2007 .
" No pain , no gain with a lot of these transactions , " Mr Nasser said in the group 's first public comments since walking away from PotashCorp .
" We are one of few companies in the world that can look at such large transactions . "
BHP responded to regulatory opposition to its proposed Western Australian iron ore joint venture with Rio Tinto by jettisoning the deal last month .
In 2008 , BHP abandoned its hostile bid for a then debt-laden Rio Tinto as the global financial crisis deepened .
Some BHP shareholders have called on Mr Kloppers to hold off on such transformational acquisitions .
They railed against the fees the miner had incurred and urged the group to extend share buy-backs beyond its planned $13bn .
Shareholders at the Perth meeting agreed to extend for another year a new round of share buy-backs in 2011 , giving BHP the option to acquire more than $8bn of its shares .
The mining group has a solid balance sheet with net debt falling to $3.3bn at the year end after it generated net operating cash flow of $18bn in 2009-10 .
John Campbell , from the Australian Shareholders ' Association , told the meeting that management time had been diverted from " more profitable activities " and said the collapse of the iron ore joint venture had cost BHP $350m .
But Mr Nasser said BHP had an obligation to pursue transactions that could create shareholder value .
" I do not see it as wasted cost , " he said .
" There has been no distraction .
The management has been able to look at these transactions while at the same time improving value for shareholders . "
Mr Nasser dismissed a US report that claimed BHP was to focus on smaller companies .
" We 're not going to change our strategy from looking at large tier-one quality assets . "
*PotashCorp said on Tuesday it was launching a $2bn stock buyback to support its share price .
Potash said it could buy up to 14.57m shares , 4.9 percent of those outstanding and would wrap up the purchase by December 31 if market conditions allowed .
See Lombard
Credit : By Peter Smith in Sydney
