BHP suspends Dollars 10bn share buy-back
BHP Billiton has suspended its Dollars 10bn on-market buy-back of its UK-listed shares until further notice , reflecting the fact that they are it is expected to make a bid for rival Rio Tinto .
Rio Tinto
The cancellation of the buy-back programme , which was extended from Dollars 3bn to Dollars 10bn in February , comes as the UK Takeover Panel is about to set a deadline for BHP to either launch a bid for Rio Tinto or to walk away for at least six months .
That deadline is expected to be set as early as tonight or tomorrow , giving BHP until late January or February to show its hand .
The world 's largest miner said in spite of market speculation about its takeover proposal for Rio Tinto , it had continued with its buy-back programme .
BHP stressed that the buy-back programme was independently managed by BNP Paribas under an irrevocable mandate and a fixed term .
BHP said that the mandate ended on Friday .
UK Takeover Panel rules state that a company can not renew a buy- back mandate during an offer period because it is in the possession of market sensitive information .
Rio Tinto said yesterday that it was pleased that the buy-back had been terminated as it had been a matter of concern for them ever since BHP 's proposal was made public .
It said the buy-back scheme may have artificially buoyed the value of BHP 's proposed takeover offer .
BHP rejects that criticism , saying that the irrevocable mandate had to run until it expired .
According to Ivor Reis , an analyst with stockbroker EL&C Baillieu , on-market buy-backs are not irrevocable and regardless of whether BHP gave the buy-back to a third party to manage , every company has the right to change instructions to the broker to alter or pull the buy-back at any time
" If BHP is in the thick of contemplating any type of material transaction and move beyond a certain point Australian listing requirements demand they must discontinue the buy-back , " he said .
BHP last month approached Rio Tinto with an all-share takeover proposal worth about Dollars 127bn which Rio Tinto this month rejected as too low .
Separately , BHP said yesterday it had appointed Dr David Morgan to the board as an non-executive director .
Dr Morgan is the outgoing chief executive of Westpac .
