Brasher to step down at Tesco
UK chief 's exit follows shock profit warning ; Group battles to revive domestic performance
Richard Brasher , chief executive of Tesco 's UK operations , is to step down as Britain 's biggest retailer struggles to revive its domestic performance after its first profit warning in 20 years .
Tesco is expected to announce Mr Brasher 's departure this morning .
Philip Clarke , group chief executive , will take over the running of the retailer 's domestic operations .
Mr Brasher , a long-serving director at the company who has been UK chief for just a year , was due to address a high profile industry conference today .
His departure comes in the wake of a profit warning in January after Tesco recorded its worst trading over the crucial Christmas period for decades .
The move comes after reports of longstanding tensions between Mr Clarke and Mr Brasher .
The pair were said to have clashed over Tesco 's flagship pound(s)500m price cutting programme , which has failed to revive sales .
Mr Brasher wanted to go further with the price cuts , but this was resisted by Mr Clarke and Laurie McIlwee , finance director , who wanted to preserve profit .
In an interview with the Financial Times last week , Mr Clarke denied there were any tensions between himself and Mr Brasher .
Tesco declined to comment .
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , said the move " shows assertiveness by Clarke to take the bull by the horns , albeit the capability for him to be group chief executive and head of the UK is debatable " .
The management changes come amid early signs that a programme of aggressive voucher promotions has begun to stimulate sales growth .
Mr Brasher is the third Tesco board director to leave since Mr Clarke succeeded Sir Terry Leahy a year ago in the biggest management transition at Tesco for 14 years .
Andrew Higginson , head of Tesco 's retailing services division which includes Tesco bank , and David Potts , the Tesco veteran running Asia , have both stepped down .
Lucy Neville-Rolfe , legal and corporate affairs director , is also expected to step down this year .
The move comes as Mr Clarke puts the finishing touches to a recovery plan for the UK business that is expected to hit profits by pound(s)457m , wiping out any growth this year .
JPMorgan Cazenove , joint broker to Tesco , forecast yesterday that Tesco could spend almost pound(s)800m revamping its UK stores over the next two years .
The revamp programme will be paid for by cutting pound(s)300m-pound(s)350m from capital expenditure elsewhere .
Store revamp : www.ft.com / retail
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
