British Land in pound(s)740m rights issue
REAL ESTATE ; pound(s)1.64bn writedown in third quarter ; Group looks to future acquisitions
British Land has tapped shareholders for pound(s)740m in a fully underwritten rights issue as the company secures its balance sheet from further falls in property asset values .
The company announced the issue alongside a pound(s)1.64bn writedown in the third quarter following a 13 per cent reduction in its property portfolio valuation .
" We 're doing it [ the rights issue ] for two reasons , " Chris Grigg , chief executive , said yesterday .
" One is to ensure that we 're in a very strong balance sheet position .
The second is so that over time we can take advantage of [ future buying ] opportunities as we see them . "
The rights issue will create two new shares at 225p for every three shares , a 53 per cent discount to Wednesday 's closing price .
It is fully underwritten by Morgan Stanley , UBS and Euro Lights Private , an affiliate of GIC Real Estate , the Singapore government 's property investment arm .
News of the rights issue comes three days after British Land 's sale of the Meadowhall shopping centre in Sheffield for pound(s)588m to London and Stamford , and the announcement by rival Hammerson of a pound(s)584m equity raising .
The money raised will allow British Land to access about pound(s)3bn in undrawn credit lines .
The company has drawn down pound(s)900m of its banking facility and said that , following the rights issue and the sale of Meadowhall , this would be reduced to pound(s)100m .
British Land reported a 13 per cent fall in its property portfolio valuation and a corresponding increase in pre-tax losses .
The revaluation brought net asset value per share down to 718p , a 31 per cent fall on the same period last year , when NAV was pound(s)10.43.
For the three months to the end of December , pre-tax losses rose 22 per cent to pound(s)1.6bn - heavily dented by the pound(s)1.64bn writedown - on gross rental and related revenues that dropped 14 per cent to pound(s)137m .
The loss per share grew 21 per cent compared with the same period last year , to 312p .
Underlying pre-tax profit fell 13 per cent in the quarter to pound(s)63m .
Shares in British Land closed down 27p at 456 1/4 p.
Credit : By John O'Doherty and Daniel Thomas
