British Land sees end to property boom REAL ESTATE
The commercial property boom of recent years is likely to peter out soon , according to Stephen Hester , chief executive of British Land .
Growth rates were set to slow , although a crash was very unlikely , Mr Hester said as he unveiled a surge in profit and asset values in the year to March 31 .
A rise in bond yields in recent months has hit indebted buyers and taken the edge off the property market in Europe and the US .
" The property market is more vulnerable than in recent years to setbacks should interest rate go higher , " said Mr Hester .
Shares in British Land rose 81p yesterday to Pounds 12.44 as the property company confirmed expectations that it was likely to become a real estate investment trust ( Reit ) next year .
It will pay more than Pounds 300m to the Treasury to become a Reit , a tax- efficient property vehicle , in return for paying no corporation tax .
Its dividend yield is set to rise by a minimum of 45 per cent to more than 2 per cent .
British Land is set to sell much of its remaining 78 high street shops , valued at Pounds 370m .
Instead it will focus on out-of-town retail parks , where rental growth is expected to be stronger .
It will set up a fund for Meadowhall , its underperforming shopping centre in Sheffield , so it can reduce its ownership .
Adjusted diluted net asset value rose 32 per cent to Pounds 14.86 ( Pounds 11.28 ) .
Underlying profit was up 26 per cent to Pounds 228m ( Pounds 181m ) .
A total dividend of 17p ( 15.7p ) will be paid from underlying earnings per share of 36p ( 27p ) .
Of this , the final dividend is 11.8p ( 10.9p ) .
FT Comment
*British Land has been hyperactive , trading Pounds 4.8bn of property in a year .
Yesterday 's headline data may have beaten analysts ' consensus but the Net Asset Value increase was flattered by the company 's high gearing .
The underlying portfolio saw a valuation rise of 13.5 per cent , less than the industry average ( based on IPD ) of 14.6 per cent .
It also undershot main rival Land Securities at 15.3 per cent .
Shareholders will be crossing their fingers that City office rents rise in the next few years to buoy British Land 's 2.5m sq ft pipeline of new developments .
There were no real surprises on the Reit front but the company group looks cheap if it fulfils analysts ' forecasts of post-Reit NAV at Pounds 15.24 - a prospective discount of 20 per cent .
