British Land builds on longest winning streak in nine months
LONDON
London 's longest winning streak in nine months pushed the FTSE 100 through 6,000 points with British Land among the biggest gainers .
Shares in British Land gained 2.3 per cent to 629 1/2 p amid speculation that it could buy problem property loans from banks .
" We think that the group is particularly well placed to pursue this route with the [ current chief executive Chris Grigg ] having an investment banking background , " said Deutsche Bank .
British Land could put about pound(s)10bn into forming joint ventures with the lenders and still retain its tax breaks as a real estate investment trust , said analyst Martin Allen .
That would be a material amount for Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group , which have about pound(s)40bn of distressed property loans each , he argued .
The wider market reached its highest level since May with the FTSE 100 closing up 27.78 points , or 0.5 per cent , to 6,017.54.
The index had jumped 6.1 per cent over a seven-day winning streak .
But a holiday in the US meant Monday 's volume was by far the lowest of the year .
Another bout of takeover speculation helped Reckitt Benckiser add 1 per cent to pound(s)34.88 with Procter & Gamble said to be the predator .
Unilever , up 1.2 per cent to pound(s)20.37 , has also been linked with Reckitt in recent days .
John Wood Group was pushed higher by 4.8 per cent to 694p as the oil services company completed a pound(s)1.08bn cash return to shareholders .
" Investor focus will return to the attractive longer-term outlook for Wood Group , " said BarCap , which raised its price target on the stock to 920p .
The consensus underestimates Wood 's scale and potential to boost profit margins following its acquisition last year of sector peer PSN , the broker said .
Merrill Lynch was positive on Weir Group , up 2.1 per cent to pound(s)21.85 , based on the pump-maker 's exposure to shale gas .
Late in the day , however , JPMorgan Cazenove cut the stock off its recommended list .
Generator supplier Aggreko climbed 1.9 per cent to pound(s)19.80 after Citigroup raised earnings forecasts .
Non-OECD electricity consumption was set to grow by 5 per cent a year and Aggreko 's international unit was active in less than 20 per cent of its addressable market , Citi said .
Imperial Tobacco rose a further 1.2 per cent to pound(s)21.43 after its move on Friday to increase prices in Spain , where the cigarette market has been fighting a price war with Philip Morris International and British American Tobacco .
" We believe the competition is likely to follow the signal given by Imperial Tobacco , " said Natixis .
" This would put an end to the price war and significantly reduce the pound(s)110m impact announced by Imperial a few weeks ago . "
Premier Foods led the mid-cap FTSE 250 , which hit its highest level in four years .
The benchmark , considered by some as a better gauge of the UK economy than the FTSE 100 , rose by 0.5 per cent to 12,102.27.
Premier bounced 9.5 per cent to 18 3/4 p amid speculation about boardroom changes .
The stock last week dropped by a third after a profit warning .
National Express was up 1.3 per cent to 259p on a retread of speculation that it might be a bid target .
Kofax gained 4.3 per cent to 464p as Espirito Santo repeated " buy " advice in a preview of its trading update due July 28 .
It forecast the document capture specialist to beat consensus expectations and argued that the shares were at an undeserved 15 per cent discount to the sector .
Pubs group Enterprise Inns advanced 2.7 per cent to 67 1/2 p after Peel Hunt upgraded to " buy " on valuation grounds .
Recent underperformance meant the stock was at a sharp discount to a 295p net asset value , even though Enterprise last revalued its estate in September and wrote down values by just 2 per cent , said Peel Hunt .
Trading has been under control , the disposal programme has cast out most of the worst properties and the way is clear for a debt refinancing , it added .
In small caps , Psion , which makes handheld devices for delivery drivers and traffic wardens , lost 17.1 per cent to 74 1/4 p after it warned on profits , blaming supply chain problems .
The company said it now expects revenue growth in the year to be in the range of 5-8 per cent with gross margins similar to those of last year at about 38 per cent
Biggest movers , Page 21 Small-caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
