British Land on solid ground with analyst optimism on Reits rules LONDON
British Land was one of the standout features of a London market that outperformed its European rivals thanks to further strong gains for its oil and mining constituents .
The property company took second spot on the FTSE 100 leaderboard after Alec Pelmore , Merrill Lynch 's property analyst , advised clients to buy , citing recent share price weakness and plans by Gordon Brown to introduce tax-efficient real estate investment trusts .
" The British Land share price has fallen back to below the price it stood at before the Reit announcement ( in the Budget ) .
We think British Land is the key beneficiary of the announcement , " Mr Pelmore said .
While Mr Pelmore expects British Land to convert to Reit status , he thinks the company should consider demerging its office and retail businesses , a process he believes would unlock greater value for shareholders since both parts would command higher stock market ratings .
" In particular , we only have two ( mid cap ) London office specialists that both stand at significant premiums , and British Land office would therefore be likely to attract a significant premium itself , " he said .
With UBS also upgrading its recommendation on British Land to " buy " yesterday , the shares closed 4.7 per cent higher at Pounds 12.77.
In the wider market it was more of the same , with further gains for oil and mining stocks pushing leading shares higher .
The FTSE 100 closed ahead 14.7 points , or 0.24 per cent , at 6,044.1 with BHP Billiton 5 per cent higher at Pounds 11.80 1/2p , the best performer as metals prices hit record highs .
In terms of FTSE 100 index points , BP , 1.24 per cent higher at 696 1/2p , was the biggest contributor as the crude price hit a record high .
BG Group climbed 2.96 per cent to 764p as Exxon Mobil takeover rumours did the rounds again .
The FTSE 250 advanced 10.2 points , or 0.1 per cent , to 9,785.2.
Carnival , the cruise ship operator , missed out on yesterday 's gains , falling 1.76 per cent to Pounds 27.69 on concern that the record oil price would affect margins .
Pearson , owner of the Financial Times , was under pressure , sliding 2.25 per cent to 760p amid concerns that its education division could face increased competition from Reed Elsevier .
Yesterday Reed , off 0.37 per cent at 542 1/2p , said that actions taken to improve the performance of Harcourt Education were progressing and that recent US state testing contracts were encouraging .
Burren Energy , the oil exploration company focused on Congo ( Brazzaville ) , was the FTSE 250 's top performer , helped by the oil price and a push from broker UBS .
Lifting its recommendation to buy and setting a Pounds 10.70 target price , UBS said it expected a progress report on the M'Boundi oilfield , due in the next couple of weeks , to trigger upgrades .
Burren rose9 per cent to 996 1/2p .
Babcock International , the support services and shipbuilding group , was also in demand , improving 2.2 per cent to 313 1/2p on bid hopes .
Reports over the weekend claimed the company had asked the Takeover Panel to impose a " put up or shut up " deadline on prospective bidders .
BAE Systems was 1.8 per cent better at 423p , and VT Group 0.5 per cent higher at 460p .
Numis Securities believes an approach is likely and sees 350p as fair value for Babcock .
Northumbrian Water firmed 5.8 per cent to 255p on the back of vague takeover talk .
As a pure water company , traders reckon Northumbrian could be a target for an infrastructure fund .
Indeed , the company 's biggest shareholder is the Ontario Teachers ' Pension Plan , which is rumoured to have been one of the parties backing the Goldman Sachs tilt at airports group BAA,1 per cent higher at 423p .
On the downside , packaging group DS Smith shed 14.2 per cent to 144 1/2p after issuing another profits warning , while Northern Foods lost 4p to 88 3/4p after a 44-page sell note from Citigroup landed on the desks of City fund managers .
Setting a downside target price of 75p , Citigroup drew attention to the dire consequences that proposed front-of-pack labelling could have on sales of pizzas , pies and formed meats - which generate about 10 per cent of group revenues at Northern Foods .
" Only the possibility of a venture capital bid offers support for the share price at current levels , something that we consider unlikely in the near-term , " said Jeff Stent , an analyst .
EMI eased 1.19 per cent to 252p in spite of a buy recommendation from Deutsche Bank .
