British Land aims ever higher as rents climb REAL ESTATE
British Land looks set to build the Leadenhall Building , a 48- storey tower in the City , after seeing signs of a stronger occupier market .
Stephen Hester , chief executive , said he was " 80 per cent confident " that the group would build the 736ft skyscraper , set to be one ofBritain 's tallest once finished in 2010 .
The company is powering ahead with various office developments in London covering 3.5m sq ft.
They include The Broadgate Tower and 201 Bishopsgate , two adjacent buildings to the north of the Broadgate estate , due for completion by 2008 .
Mr Hester said he was confident about London rents , having achieved Pounds 50 per sq ft in a recent letting at Broadgate - a figure not seen there since 2001 .
Property experts have been falsely calling a pick-up in the London occupier market for years but Mr Hester said office vacancy levels were now falling , with signs of rental growth .
Elsewhere , the company - led by long-standing chairman Sir John Riblat who is set to retire next January - has been selling high street shops and regional offices while buying London offices and retail parks .
This strategy appeared vindicated yesterday as the group reported a 3.6 per cent uplift in the value of its retail warehouses and a 4.8 per cent rise in City offices during the first quarter .
Total assets rose 3.5 per cent to Pounds 15.15bn.
Net asset value ( NAV ) per share rose 7.1 per cent to Pounds 15.92 ( Pounds 14.86 on March 31 ) in the three months to June 30 , ahead of analysts ' forecasts .
Underlying pre-tax profit rose 33 per cent from the previous quarter to Pounds 77m ( Pounds 55m ) , helped by an Pounds 18m dividend from the company 's 17 per cent stake in Songbird , the Canary Wharf vehicle .
Underlying earnings per share were 11p ( 9p ) .
FT Comment
*British Land 's NAV continues to rise on the winds of the broader investment boom .
It is a sign of the hot market when the group 's portfolio is valued on a yield of 4.8 per cent while its cost of debt is 5.4 per cent .
Stephen Hester believes he has tweaked the group to outperform when those winds change direction .
First , there is the strong pipeline of office developments , which will be profitable - if let - even if London rents do not rise .
Second , British Land has bought into retail parks that , though pricey , promise stronger rental growth than other shops .
British Land , at a share price of Pounds 13.71 , down 5p yesterday , is trading at a 16 per cent discount to NAV of Pounds 15.92.
Taking into account the charge of 60p a share to become a Reit in January and a 34p charge for last month 's Pounds 1bn refinancing , effective NAV is about Pounds 15 .
On this measurement , its shares are at a discount to NAV of 8 per cent - perhaps as a result of BL 's low yield .
Yet the price could rise in the next year if some analysts ' predictions of 10 per cent NAV growth come true .
