British Land highlights slowdown
Real Estate ; Growth in property values subsides ; Quarterly pre-tax profit drops 73 %
British Land has become the first leading property company to demonstrate the effects of a slowdown in the market with a sharply diminished rise in the value of its real estate portfolio in the past quarter .
The company 's property portfolio climbed 1.4 per cent to pound(s)8.7bn in the three months to June 30 , its first financial quarter , down considerably from the 16 per cent rise in the previous two quarters when the bounce in the market was at its height .
Profit before tax dropped to pound(s)171m , against pound(s)630m in the previous quarter .
British Land warned that the near-term outlook for the property sector was uncertain , although it said that it remained confident about long-term prospects for the business .
Chris Grigg , chief executive , said : " We will get a period where we will bump along but I feel confident about our properties .
" Prime [ property ] will remain in good shape compared with secondary assets .
Rents will be stronger in London than in retail and we should see that trend coming through in rental values . "
The news of a slowdown in the growth of its portfolio , which saw net asset value per share rise from 504p to 515p , helped push the shares down 12.4p to 457.1p , although the company reassured investors that operationally it was still on track with estimated rental values ( ERV ) up 0.7 per cent .
ERV in the London office portfolio rose 2.4 per cent , reflecting the strength of recent lettings in the City and West End , but fell 0.2 per cent in the retail portfolio .
The company will maintain its quarterly dividend at 6.5p.
British Land this week agreed to develop a 700,000 sq ft office building for UBS on the existing site of 4 and 6 Broadgate , which it owns in a joint venture with Blackstone , boosting rental income and extending the weighted average lease term .
The news will strengthen fears that the commercial property market could be heading for a second dip in values later this year , having seen values bounce surprisingly strongly since hitting a floor last summer .
Jones Lang LaSalle 's quarterly index showed that all-property total returns slowed to 3.6 per cent in the second quarter , against 6.2 per cent in the previous quarter , while capital value growth decreased to 2 per cent .
Mr Grigg said the company was unlikely to make any substantial investment acquisitions this year , although it would look to attract a joint venture partner to help fund the building of the Cheese-grater skyscraper .
" We have seen more properties on the market but nothing that has seemed compelling .
We are progressing with two developments and are likely to add one or two more to that list , " Mr Grigg said .
See Lombard
Credit : By Daniel Thomas , Property Correspondent
