British Land admits the extent of its losses
By DANIEL THOMAS and MAGGIE URRY
British Land has become the first major property company to reveal the extent of the property downturn after admitting yesterday that more than Pounds 1.3bn had been wiped off its portfolio .
The UK 's second largest property company reported a pre-tax loss of Pounds 1.32bn in the last quarter after a 16.7 per cent drop in its net asset per share to Pounds 14.01.
Its property was marked down 8.9 per cent .
The speed of the adjustment of valuations augured well for a shorter downturn , the company said .
" Macro-economic uncertainty and the global credit crunch have depressed property values , " said chairman Chris Gibson-Smith .
" However , the worst should be behind us , though uncertainties remain on timing and extent of the correction . "
The portfolio value stood at Pounds 18.4bn at the end of December .
British Land reassured on its retail and office development pipeline .
Completions in 2007 and 2008 were 74 per cent pre-let , sold or under offer , it said .
Like-for-like rental value growth of 5 per cent beat the Investment Property Databank benchmark of 3.4 per cent , and leasing activity " remained good " .
The company has sold Pounds 600m of property since September , and expects to continue to sell more low-growth assets .
It could revisit the partial sale of Meadowhall , pulled last year .
Its largest single holding , the Broadgate estate in Liverpool Street , fell 9.3 per cent to Pounds 2.8bn.
Underlying pre-tax profit rose 12.5 per cent to Pounds 72m for the quarter , while underlying earnings per share rose 16.7 per cent .
The company 's debt is fixed at 5.28 per cent and over an average maturity of 12.6 years .
It has a further Pounds 2bn in committed undrawn bank lines available .
British Land 's property portfolio has fallen broadly in line with losses throughout the property industry in the past six months .
" The losses are as expected but the tone from management is much more optimistic , " said Harm Meijer , analyst at JPMorgan .
Lombard , Page 18
