British Land portfolio value bounces
real estate ; Estate 's worth rises 8.2 % to nearly pound(s)8bn ; Group has no swift development plans
British Land , the UK 's second biggest property company , reported a strong bounce in the value of its estate during the third quarter to pound(s)8bn , as the real estate recovery began to feed into the balance sheets of the listed sector .
The company reported a net asset value of 438p for the third quarter , a jump of 18 per cent , which led to a profit of pound(s)611m , compared with a loss of pound(s)1.6bn last year .
The value of its properties increased 8.2 per cent to almost pound(s)8bn .
Earnings per share were 60p , compared with a loss per share of 470p in the period last year .
The company has spent pound(s)121m on properties since last September , including a half stake in Surrey Quays shopping centre in London .
British Land has pound(s)2.8bn of undrawn debt and pound(s)342m of cash .
Chris Grigg , chief executive , said the company was well-positioned to take advantage as further attractive assets emerged over the next 18 months .
Mr Grigg said there were no plans to " push the button " on any new developments , in spite of a large potential pipeline and plans at rival real estate investment trusts , although it would refurbish two buildings at Broadgate as part of plans to update the 1980s office estate with its new partner , Blackstone .
Mr Grigg also said there were no regrets about selling half of the pound(s)2bn Broadgate estate to Blackstone last summer in spite of the rise in value .
He said the move was a " long-term strategy decision " for an asset that required a significant amount of capital expenditure .
There are also 750,000 sq ft of extensions to retail parks being reviewed .
Rental values declined - by 0.5 per cent for retail assets and by 1.2 per cent for offices - although the rate has eased .
There was like-for-like income growth of 1.4 per cent , however , and the company confirmed 272,000 sq ft of office space was under offer to new tenants .
Occupancy remained strong at 94 per cent overall , with retail properties at 99 per cent .
The company will pay a third-quarter dividend of 6.5p.
Shares closed up 12p at 450p . * FT Comment
British Land is well-placed to continue to benefit from the real estate recovery with a geared portfolio of well-let prime London and retail assets .
While trading at a premium of 3 per cent to the reported NAV , the shares stand at a discount to forward looking estimates , suggesting there is still upside .
Even so , it has done nothing in particular to drive returns above the market recovery , and a management bolstered by two new experienced board members needs to be more active with its cash , given changing market conditions .
If nothing else , it needs earnings to ensure there is no dividend deterioration in future .
Credit : By Daniel Thomas , Property Correspondent
