Buoyant BHP presses Rio bid
Miner unveils record full-year profits ; Kloppers stresses ' sense ' behind takeover
BHP Billiton pressed the case for its proposed takeover of rival Rio Tinto as it unveiled record full-year profits yesterday .
Marius Kloppers , chief executive of BHP Billiton , said the takeover , valued at about $127bn ( pound(s)68bn ) made " more sense than ever " as rising labour and fuel costs begin to put pressure on industry profit margins .
The world 's biggest miner reported a 22 per cent rise in pre-tax profits from $19.2bn to $23.5bn in the year to June 30 as it benefited from record production in several commodities as well as strong demand in China , cost cuts and a focus on high-margin growth projects .
This was the seventh consecutive year of record profits .
However , BHP warned that the commodities sector as a whole was facing challenges : " Strong global demand for resources continues to provide cost challenges for the whole industry .
This is mainly due to rising prices for inputs such as diesel , coke and explosives , and shortages of skilled labour . "
BHP also appeared to support growing fears that the commodities boom might be coming to an end , as it warned of weaker global economic growth in the short term .
In view of these challenges , Mr Kloppers said BHP Billiton and Rio should combine .
" Together we know we can accelerate the volumes over what the two companies can achieve on their own , " he said .
" Volume growth is very important now because each unit is now so profitable .
For each $2 of revenue you get $1 of profits . "
BHP has benefited from the rapid urbanisation of China and other developing nations , which has driven up demand for commodities and their prices over the past seven years .
But there is concern BHP could be hurt if the rate of growth in China has peaked .
" China is the biggest driver of our resource demand , " Mr Kloppers conceded .
But while a global economic slowdown may lead to higher volatility in prices in the short term , Mr Kloppers said commodity demand from China continued to be " resilient " and that the group 's long-term outlook remained strong .
The final dividend will be $0.70 a share , up 48.9 per cent from the year before .
Earnings per share rose 20 per cent at $2.753 while revenue was up 25.3 per cent at $59.5bn.
BHP shares closed up 1.6 per cent at A$38.60 in Sydney and rose 0.52 per cent to pound(s)15.37 in London .
Additional reporting by Rebecca Bream in London
Road to Rio , Page 19
Credit : By Rebecca Sharp in Sydney and Pan Kwan Yuk in London
