BUT TESCO , GM AND MOTOROLA BUCK THE TREND BY KEEPING THEIR EARS TO THE GROUND
Not all foreign companies are failing to make money in Korea , writes Song Jung-a in Seoul .
The common denominator is that the good performers have tailored their services to the local market .
Tesco , the UK supermarket group , has enjoyed success with the help of Samsung , its local partner .
Samsung Tesco 's HomePlus has become Korea 's second largest outlet behind E-Mart .
The venture reported Dollars 4.6bn in sales last year from its 40 stores , commanding a 17.1 per cent market share .
Since Tesco entered the Korean market in 1999 , it has gone a long way towards localising its service .
Beyond the shopping floors , there are fast-food bars , coffee shops and restaurants in the hypermarkets .
Tesco has set up in most of its Korean stores an internet cafe , a financial service centre and a car-repair shop .
Shoppers can visit an in-house art gallery and attend a class held in the community centre .
General Motors has done well .
The US carmaker took over bankrupt Daewoo Motors in 2002 , and has turned it round .
GM now uses all of the former Daewoo facilities and is designing new models in Korea .
GM Daewoo Auto & Technology has become one of the most successful overseas operations of GM .
The venture 's sales more than doubled to 1.16m cars last year and increased 53 per cent to 476,000 units in the first four months of this year , overtaking Kia Motors as Korea 's second largest carmaker after Hyundai .
GM Daewoo won the respect of Korean consumers when it rehired all 1,600workers laid off by the old Daewoo and announced plans to buy a former Daewoo plant that was excluded from the original acquisition deal .
" This is a case where they have built up the capabilities of the company because the Korean staff had the education , background and skill necessary to produce modern car designs and to manufacture them , " says Hank Morris at Industrial Research and Consulting .
IBM , Hewlett-Packard and Motorola have made strides in Korea .
IBM Korea is reporting about Dollars 1bn in annual sales even after disposing of its PC business , and Hewlett-Packard Korea 's annual turnover is roughly Dollars 1.4bn.
Motorola 's Razr mobile phones are popular in Korea , after years of weak performance for the company .
" There are certainly some good success stories of foreign companies here .
They have been adaptable and aggressive in finding out what the local market needs and how they can manage their business from Korea , " says Hank Morris at Industrial Research and Consulting , the Korean consultancy .
