Carphone Warehouse and Vodafone defy wider fall
london
Carphone Warehouse held steady in a volatile London market on Friday amid talk the retailer would soon abandon expansion plans .
Carphone looked certain to ditch its electricals joint venture with Best Buy shortly , said Geoff Ruddell , Morgan Stanley analyst .
To shut the lossmaking business would lift Carphone 's earnings by about a fifth , and allow cash earmarked for a wider rollout to be returned to shareholders in a special dividend , he said .
Closure costs would be no more than the venture 's annual loss of about pound(s)50m a year , he said .
" In economic terms we think this is a pretty simple decision , however painful it may be to close the business down little more than a year after opening the first store with such fanfare , " Mr Ruddell told clients .
Carphone shares closed 0.4 per cent higher at 412 3/4 p.
However , Morgan Stanley downgraded its stance to " underweight " with a 360p target price .
" By early 2012 we think consensus near-term forecasts for Carphone will be significantly higher than they are today , but that the company 's growth prospects will appear much less exciting , " Mr Ruddell said .
" Net-net we think the share price will [ be ] lower than it is now . "
The FTSE 100 finished 1 per cent lower , down 58.02 points to 5,815.19.
For July as a whole the index sank 2.9 per cent , its sharpest such fall since June 2010 .
Friday 's fall would have been sharper without Vodafone , whose 4 per cent gain to 172p lent 13 points to the FTSE 100 .
The group 's US mobile phone joint venture with Verizon Communications - Verizon Wireless - is to pay a long-awaited dividend of $10bn next January , it was announced overnight .
Vodafone said it would respond by making a special pound(s)2bn pay-out to its shareholders next February .
Banks were under pressure in advance of the results season starting next week , with investors unclear about whether the lenders would need to take impairment charges against their Greek sovereign holdings .
Analysts have been paring forecasts all week to reflect poor capital markets .
Lloyds Banking Group dropped 3.7 per cent to 43 1/4 p after RBS cut the stock off its " buy " list .
" Lloyds ' return-on-equity recovery story is rapidly becoming a six-year journey , " RBS said .
" Given what looks to us like an overambitious top-line strategy , a tough economic backdrop , regulatory uncertainty and limited repatriation of capital until 2015 , we see little potential for the shares to achieve a sustainable re-rating in the next 12 months . "
Barclays was 2.2 per cent weaker at 223p and Royal Bank of Scotland lost 1.6 per cent to 35 1/2 p.
Exposure to commodities prices and mortgage-backed securities , respectively , put earnings risk on the downside , according to Citigroup .
Anglo American led the miners lower , losing 3.3 per cent to pound(s)29.00.
Its interim earnings matched forecasts but operational issues meant copper production fell 8 per cent , which triggered downgrades .
Xstrata faded 1.9 per cent to pound(s)12.96 in advance of earnings due on Tuesday .
Rio Tinto , which reports on Thursday , lost 1.2 per cent to pound(s)43.00.
ENRC was 1 per cent lower at 772 1/2 p after a spokesman for its controlling shareholders denied recent talk that they might take the miner private .
But Finland-based Talvivaara Mining was squeezed higher by 7.3 per cent to 429 1/2 p on tracker fund demand ahead of the stock joining the OMX Helsinki 25 index on Monday .
Travis Perkins lost 4.7 per cent to 883 1/2 p after a cautious outlook overshadowed in-line results , with the builders ' merchant bringing forward cost-saving targets to counter weaker than hoped for trading .
" The statement confirms that trading conditions in the UK are becoming increasingly challenging , " said Davy stockbrokers .
Drinks maker Britvic was 2.7 per cent lower at 351p after UBS cut earnings forecasts in a preview of its next trading update .
Document-scanning specialist Kofax lost a further 7.9 per cent to 362p on the back of Thursday 's trading update , which indicated a sharp deterioration of organic sales growth in the second half .
" We think the shares will need to consolidate while the market gets comfort around the sustainable growth rate of the business , " said Investec .
Spirent Communications rallied by 1.5 per cent to 130 1/2 p on rare good news from its sector , with Anritsu , a sector peer in wireless network testing , reporting a strong quarter .
Citigroup repeated " buy " advice on Spirent .
UBM rose 5.3 per cent to 541p after the trade magazine publisher raised guidance for its events business and posted solid earnings .
Biggest movers , Page 21
Credit : By Bryce Elder
