Cash call speculation lifts Barclays as FTSE ends on two-month high
LONDON
Barclays was in focus as banks helped lift the FTSE 100 to a two-month high .
Shares in Barclays rose 6.4 per cent to 187p , matching a Europewide sector rally , as rumours circulated that it may raise capital to pre-emptively bolster its balance sheet .
However , people familiar with Barclays said there was no basis to speculation about a cash call .
Conventional means to raise cash , such as a share placing or the sale of its stake in BlackRock , would do little to appease the most bearish commentators on Barclays .
Espirito Santo estimated that the bank would need an extra EUR13.6bn to meet the 9 per cent capital threshold planned by the European Banking Authority - equivalent to about half its market value .
Instead , dealers attributed Wednesday 's share price strength to short covering .
Barclays is one of the few eurozone-exposed banks whose domicile and free float makes short selling both legal and viable , they said .
Data Explorers shows that 0.8 per cent of Barclays ' free float is out on loan , up from 0.4 per cent in August and equivalent to just over a day 's average volume .
The rest of the banks extended their rally after European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso called for co-ordinated efforts to recapitalise the sector .
Since hitting a 30-month low last week , the FTSE 's banks index has surged by 16.4 per cent .
The wider market also continued to rise with the FTSE 100 up 0.9 per cent , or 46.1 points , to 5,441.80.
ENRC led the blue-chip risers as miners underpinned the index .
The stock rallied 7.4 per cent to 671 1/2 p , helped by news that customers agreed to hold ferrochrome prices for the fourth quarter .
The settlement underpinned 2011 forecasts , Morgan Stanley said .
Man Group dropped 6 per cent to 156 1/4 p after a poor week for AHL , the fund estimated to provide about four-fifths of its profit .
Man said the flagship fund lost 5.5 per cent last week , a move that pushed it about 9 per cent below the level at which Man can charge performance fees .
Shares in Man have dropped 35 per cent since warning last month of redemptions at GLG , the acquisition that was intended to offset its reliance on the AHL fund .
Tullow Oil weakened 3.9 per cent to pound(s)13.43 after Uganda voted to delay the group 's planned $2.9bn asset sale .
Rig engineering group Lamprell was down 15 per cent to 224 1/2 p after warning that it had costs by $14.3m on contracts to build three wind farm installation vessels .
Though Lamprell said its 2011 earnings would meet expectations thanks to outperformance elsewhere , analysts remained cautious .
" History has shown that provisions have a recurring negative impact on the markets ' confidence in earnings forecasts , " said JPMorgan Cazenove .
A reassuring trading update helped Travis Perkins add 8 per cent to 865p with the builders ' merchant reporting no signs of sales growth weakening .
Amlin , the Lloyds insurer , jumped 8 per cent to 312 1/4 p on " buy " advice from Citigroup .
The group 's core London and Bermuda businesses " remain excellent " and a 2012 dividend yield of 8 per cent looked " relatively safe " , it said .
IT services group Logica edged up 0.1 per cent to 85 1/2 p with Evolution Securities trimming forecasts but staying positive ahead of a trading update due early in November .
" With a hefty warning already priced in , the shares look a trading buy , " it said .
Premier Foods lost 20 per cent to 3 3/4 p , taking its fall since a profit warning on Friday to 62 per cent .
Exane BNP Paribas put a value on the stock of minus 5p , telling clients : " We struggle to see an equity escape route from here .
" The most likely scenario in our mind is that the banks agree to a reset of debt covenants ( for a fee of course ) and all involved hope for the best ( on both trading and credit market fronts ) .
Among small caps , Rockhopper Exploration rose 10.9 per cent to 212p after the Falklands explorer said it had received expressions of interest from companies looking to co-invest in its Sea Lion project .
Rockhopper also raised pound(s)46.5m via a share issue at 180p apiece .
Boiler developer Ceres Power dropped 16.8 per cent to 25 1/4 p after warning of further product delays while Enova Systems , a maker of electric motors , fell 21.9 per cent to 12 1/2 p after a profit warning .
Biggest movers , Page 29 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
