Citi revisits queries over Tesco accounting
Food & Drug retailers
A leading City analyst yesterday took Tesco to task over its accounting policies , sending shares in the UK 's biggest retailer lower .
Shares in Tesco closed down 10.2p at 379.6p in a flat broader market , after analysts at Citi said Tesco had more aggressive policies than its peers in revenue recognition , depreciation , the allocation of property profit , capitalised interest expense and pension accounting .
" We are not wishing to imply here that Tesco 's accounting policies are in any way incorrect , rather we suggest that the cumulative impact of the increasingly strident policies they have adopted render the profit and loss bottom line significantly different from what a peer company might report , " said Alastair Johnston , analyst at Citi .
One of the areas Mr Johnston highlighted was the way Tesco accounts for loyalty vouchers .
Had the impact of loyalty vouchers been excluded from the first-quarter performance , sales from stores open for at least a year would have fallen 0.4 per cent and not risen 0.1 per cent as reported .
The note could reignite concern over how Tesco treats Clubcard loyalty vouchers , which has become an issue since it doubled rewards under the scheme a year ago .
The retailer counts sales paid for with Clubcard vouchers as cash sales , and makes an accounting adjustment for this in its statutory half-year and full-year results .
Rivals J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison do not include the vouchers in their sales .
Mr Johnston said if more conservative policies were applied across all the areas he highlighted , Tesco 's 2009-10 underlying profit would have fallen from pound(s)3.4bn to pound(s)2.6bn.
Tesco said : " There is nothing untoward with our accounting as Citigroup 's report acknowledges .
" We report in line with statutory guidelines and the accounts are externally audited .
The issues discussed in the report have been gone over many times before and do not detract from our strong performance over the last year . "
People close to Tesco believe most of the points have been raised and dealt with in the past .
They say it has addressed the issues on the treatment of Clubcard vouchers when it has reported sales and profits .
The questions come at a sensitive time for Tesco .
Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , is handing over to Phil Clarke next March and the retailer faces challenging trading conditions .
It also faces questions from a US union-affiliated investment group at its annual meeting tomorrow on executive remuneration .
www.ft.com / ukretail
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Retail Correspondent
