Clues sought in Vodafone price mystery ON LONDON Tony Tassell
The UK stock market clearly smells something afoot with Vodafone .
The mobile telecommunications group 's share price has jumped 12 per cent in the past two weeks in massive trading volumes .
The re-rating has been even more striking given that it has coincided with a set of full-year results that confirmed a long- term trend of deteriorating profit margins and a flat outlook for earnings .
The rumour mill has been the obvious catalyst with speculation of a takeover from a US trade buyer , such as AT&T or Verizon , or - almost inevitably in the current market environment - a private equity consortium .
Such a deal would have more than a little resonance for stock market historians .
Vodafone , which helped define the peak of the last bull market with its acquisition of Mannesmann in 2000 , could be taken out just as the FTSE 100 index is nearing its record heights struck shortly before that deal .
But the takeover scenarios have problems as real prospects .
Like other mega-caps , Vodafone still looks out of reach for private equity with an enterprise value including net debt of Dollars 200bn .
It is also doubtful whether the predator candidates most tipped for Vodafone would bite .
AT&T , the world 's largest telecoms group , appears to be looking at only smaller acquisitions .
Verizon , which now has a market capitalisation 20 per cent smaller than Vodafone , also faces size and cash flow constraints in doing a big deal , although it could team up with a private equity house .
A more intriguing prospect is corporate self-help - that Vodafone could break itself up .
It has already sold off operations or stakes in Japan , Belgium and Switzerland at handsome prices .
So why not go the whole hog ?
This strategy would also have resonance for watchers of stock market cycles .
After all , Vodafone itself was spun out of Racal , the conglomerate built up by Sir Ernie Harrison and then progressively broken up to deliver huge rewards to shareholders .
Adam Steiner , head of research at Vodafone shareholder SVG Capital , points out that since the beginning of 2005 , there have been more than 400 mobile telecoms deals .
He says the valuations on the deals have been remarkably consistent , averaging about 10 times prospective earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation ( ebitda ) .
Even poorly performing mobile groups went at around this level .
But Mr Steiner estimates Vodafone is trading on 5.5 times ebitda , if you exclude its 45 per cent stake in Verizon that SVG values at about Pounds 30bn .
This presents a more than interesting arbitrage opportunity .
But there are problems , not the least of which is finding buyers for specific operations .
There would even be problems selling the Verizon stake , as a deal would incur a large capital gains tax bill .
Mr Steiner also argues that while a break-up would realise value , it would not create fundamental value .
" We actually think Vodafone has the right strategy of using its high level of cash generated from its mature operations in Europe to invest in emerging markets , " he says .
Perhaps the issue is more about how public markets should value mature , high cash-generative companies such as Vodafone .
The group 's own guidance shows it is trading on a prospective free cashflow yield of 10 per cent if you exclude the Verizon holding .
Most private equity groups would be salivating at such a cashflow .
History may show these groups are now paying over the odds for assets .
But if Vodafone continues to rise without the real prospect of a takeover or break-up , it may indicate a shift by public investors to see the company more through the eyes of a trade buyer or private equity house .
In a UK market shrinking as private equity groups take advantage of cheap credit to go on acquisition sprees , that really would have resonance .
