Commodities bill hits Unilever 's margins
food producers
Unilever yesterday issued a warning that input inflation will cost some 4 per cent of sales , or about EUR1.8bn ( pound(s)1.5bn ) .
Higher commodities prices , particularly for edible oils that form a large part of Unilever 's shopping basket , are crimping margins and depressing share prices across the industry .
The global food and beverages sector is down 2 per cent in the year to date .
However , Paul Polman , chief executive of the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group , is confident cost savings and higher sticker prices will cover the bill .
Analysts agreed , saying the 26 per cent increase in operating profit to EUR6.3bn for 2010 showed the company was regaining its competitive edge .
Jamie Isenwater , food and beverages analyst at Deutsche Bank , said Unilever 's estimate on input inflation costs were based on visibility over the next six to nine months and " probably already bake in some conservatism " .
Last year underlying volumes at the maker of Dove soap and Magnum ice- cream rose 5.8 per cent year-on-year , the highest growth in 30 years , which Mr Polman attributed to more innovation in more countries .
Unilever reported turn-over of EUR44.3bn , up 11 per cent , with the aid of favourable currency fluctuations .
Pre-tax profit rose 25 per cent to EUR6.1bn.
Net profit rose 26 per cent to EUR4.6bn , while diluted earnings per share were up 25 per cent to EUR1.46.
A fourth-quarter dividend of 17.75p ( 17.04p ) is proposed .
" We continue to live in volatile times , " said Mr Polman .
" But we believe we are better prepared than ever to meet these challenges . "
Analysts concurred but some pointed to margin compression in the fourth quarter , when underlying operating margins dropped 20 basis points .
" They are only in the foothills of input inflation and already they are struggling to hold margins , " said Martin Deboo , foods analyst at Investec .
" Our analysis would suggest the number could be bigger than ( the 400 basis points) . "
The shares fell 20p to pound(s)18.37.
* FT Comment
Unilever 's battle to win over the investment community is slowly bearing fruit - although Mr Polman is under no delusions that he needs to provide further delivery before he has investors fully onside .
The numbers stand in stark relief to US peers Procter & Gamble , the world 's largest consumer goods company , and smaller rival Colgate-Palmolive , which both flunked analysts ' targets .
Unilever shares are relatively cheap and trade at about 14 times this year 's earnings , but with commodities prices soaring and developed market consumers fragile , manufacturers of consumer goods are not in fashion .
Credit : By Louise Lucas and Adam Jones
