Diversity is linchpin of BHP 's plan for Potash
News analysis ; Spreading its net widely has already bolstered profits , even in a recession , writes William MacNamara and Peter Smith
BHP Billiton 's $39bn ( pound(s)25bn ) takeover bid for Canada 's PotashCorp is backed by the mightiest finances in the resources sector , the mining company revealed yesterday as it reported annual profits margins of 38 per cent and operating cash flows that are five times higher than net debt .
The world 's biggest mining company assessed the global economy 's prospects more sombrely than usual .
But even as its cautious outlook tilted towards bearishness , in its financial results for the year to June 30 it reported that annual pre-tax profits had risen nearly 70 per cent to $19.6bn on the back of higher copper and iron ore prices .
The grand design of BHP 's diversification strategy continued to translate from theory to practise , as relative strength in some of its commodities compensated for weakness in others .
The workings of this strategy are especially relevant to the market today as BHP proposes to form a large commodity business through its all-cash offer for PotashCorp .
Iron ore boosted BHP 's profits more than any other commodity in the year to June , contributing $6bn to earnings before interest and tax out of a group total of $19.7bn.
Iron ore 's pre-eminence was similar in 2009 .
The second most important profits driver was the base metals division that includes BHP 's copper mines .
Buoyant market prices for copper yielded $4.6bn in divisional earnings before interest and tax .
This was a sharp rise from the division 's $1.2bn earnings contribution in the year to June 2009 , a period that saw copper prices falter then collapse .
The base metals division overtook the metallurgical coal division , which had a strong performance in 2009 but a far weaker one this time .
In other words , fluctuations across BHP 's nine commodity divisions roughly balanced out in financial terms over an extremely volatile two years for commodities markets .
Revenues were stable , rising only marginally from $50.2bn to $52.8bn.
Measured by earnings before interest and tax and excluding one-off items , profits were also relatively stable , rising from $18.2bn to $19.7bn.
BHP has now placed $39bn behind the proposition that a new commodity will make the group even stronger .
" We are interested in commodities with different growth profiles , [ whose prices ] kick in at different stages of the economic cycle , " said Marius Kloppers , chief executive .
" As a shareholder you should only want the most diversified exposure . "
If BHP succeeds in winning control of PotashCorp , it would move the company further away from industrial metals .
During the downturn BHP 's profitability was bolstered by its major presence in oil and gas , commodities that no other mining peer produces .
Agricultural fertilisers and oil , which are tied to food and energy demand respectively , track different economic cycles to iron ore or copper or aluminium , which track manufacturing demand .
BHP 's sometimes-forgotten oil division contributed $4.6bn to group earnings before interest and tax in the year , almost tying with base metals as an earnings contributor .
The company 's broad earnings base allowed it to pay down net debt , which fell $2.3bn to $3.3bn.
BHP 's net gearing of 6 per cent is now the lowest of its diversified mining peers .
Rio Tinto , its nearest rival , reduced its gearing to 20 per cent by June 30 , while Xstrata 's gearing is 19 per cent .
Meanwhile , BHP 's cash pile rose from $10.8bn in June 2009 to $12.5bn.
The company 's financial position helps explain why its bankers extended a $45bn syndicated loan , the largest corporate loan since December 2008 , for BHP to buy PotashCorp .
BHP 's June-end fiscal year masked the benefits it is now receiving from the new system for pricing iron ore , its most valuable commodity .
Like Rio , BHP has shifted its Australian iron ore sales from negotiated annual prices to quarterly spot market-based prices , which this week are about $140 a tonne , compared with $60 a tonne - the last benchmark price from the annual system .
The transition happened during the first and second quarters of this year , and it made iron ore by far the most profitable commodity for Rio in the six months to June 30 .
BHP , the third-biggest iron ore producer in the world after Vale and Rio , only received full exposure to the new system in the last quarter of the year .
Analysts expect stronger earnings from BHP 's iron ore for the remainder of the calendar year .
Like fellow global miners Rio , Anglo American , and Xstrata , BHP was hit hard by the weakening dollar last year .
Its depreciation against the Australian dollar , South African rand and other currencies in operating countries wiped $2.15bn from earnings before interest and tax .
BHP upped its final dividend to 45 cents , which takes it total pay-out to 87 cents .
Earnings per share were 228.6 cents , up from 105.6 the previous year .
Shares in the dual-listed Anglo-Australian miner fell 18.28p to pound(s)17.85 in London .
Lex , Page 12 Markets , Page 31 www.ft.com / bhp
Credit : By William MacNamara
