Doubts over Barclays Capital help to break banks ' winning streak
Barclays was among the sharpest fallers yesterday as London-listed banks ended their longest winning streak since 2005 .
The results next month will put pressure on management to restructure its investment banking operations , according to Exane BNP Paribas .
A weak fourth quarter for Barclays Capital would " dominate the 2011 results and raise questions over the group 's medium-term strategy " , said analyst Tom Rayner .
Shifting to higher base salaries and deferred compensation meant BarCap could no longer manage costs through the cycle , Exane argued .
It forecast that costs in the quarter will have risen to nearly 90 per cent of net income - well above management 's target of 60-65 per cent .
And , while shrinking BarCap could lift the group 's value by a third , management was unlikely to take radical action , Exane said .
" Without greater evidence of cost flexibility within the division , we believe the market will need to hear positive comments about the revenue outlook if earnings downgrades are to be avoided , " the broker told clients .
Barclays ended 1.9 per cent lower at 218 1/2 p , matching a weak trend among banks as the eurozone stalemate triggered profit-taking in a sector that had risen for 10 days .
RBS eased 3.9 per cent to 27p and Lloyds Banking Group was 2.8 per cent lower at 31 3/4 p.
The FTSE 100 ended down 0.5 per cent , or 30.66 points , at 5,751.90.
Ashmore and Hargreaves Lansdown were weakest among the asset managers on downgrades from RBS .
" Regulation is likely to drive structural changes to the European asset management industry , " RBS said .
Enforced deposit gathering by European banks and a UK ban on independent financial advisers charging commissions " could substantially alter the distribution landscape and demand characteristics of the European market for a long period of time " .
Hargreaves lost 3.4 per cent to 431p and Ashmore fell 2.4 per cent to 355p after RBS moved to " hold " and " sell " respectively .
Pearson , which owns the Financial Times , lost 4.3 per cent to pound(s)11.83 after BarCap moved it to " underweight " on valuation grounds .
Among the risers , Weir bounced 2.3 per cent to pound(s)19.27.
The stock had dropped 14 per cent in a fortnight on fears that US gas prices would hit rig demand .
But Goldman Sachs said rig numbers were steady and investors had ignored increased capital expenditure from mining customers , which account for half of Weir 's earnings .
It repeated " buy " advice with a pound(s)34 target .
Chemring lost 13.9 per cent to 386 1/2 p after a cautious outlook from the flak and flare maker led analysts to cut forecasts .
House broker JPMorgan Cazenove cut its 2012 earnings forecast by 15 per cent .
C&W Worldwide fell 9 per cent to 21 3/4 p , having surged on Monday after a stock overhang cleared .
Some investors have speculated about possible takeover interest , although Merrill Lynch was sceptical .
" There is industrial logic for one of the US operators such as AT&T or Verizon buying [ C&W ] , but to date they have never bid for European assets , preferring to build their own networks , " it said .
" An alternative could be one of the big UK mobile networks who could save money on the backhaul of their networks and cross-sell business services . . .
We do n't think investors should get excited as we believe any bidder would be seriously put off by the operational trends . "
Also helped by speculative interest in recent days , Ocado slipped 6.4 per cent to 80 1/4 p.
Panmure Gordon , repeating " sell " advice , said the online grocer was unlikely to make money before 2013 , so its valuation remained too high to attract predators .
Mitchells & Butlers fell 1.8 per cent to 261 1/4 p.
Ahead of a shareholder meeting on Thursday , Joe Lewis 's Piedmont vehicle raised its holding in the pubs group to 25.8 per cent .
Logica lost 5.1 per cent to 77 1/2 p , with Singer Capital Markets downgrading the IT services group to " sell " .
A near 100 per cent exposure to Europe gave Logica nowhere to hide from macro-economic conditions and further restructuring might be required , it said .
Among small caps , Bowleven dropped 7.2 per cent to 80 1/4 p after Investec cut the Africa-focused oil explorer off its " buy " list .
A reassuring production update lifted International Ferro Metals 14.3 per cent to 20p .
Biggest movers , Page 29 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder
