Engelhard agrees to Dollars 5bn BASF acquisition AUTO PARTS MAKER
Engelhard , the US manufacturer of catalysts for cars , trucks and factories , has agreed to a takeover by BASF of Germany worth about Dollars 5bn , marking the end of one of the most protracted transatlantic takeover battles .
Barry Perry , Engelhard chief executive , said BASF 's latest cash offer of Dollars 39 per share , Dollars 2 higher than the first bid at the start of the year , represented " fair value " and recommended shareholders tender their stocks by Monday .
Engelhard 's move looks set to seal a transaction that is meant to make BASF less dependent on cyclical earnings in its core chemicals business .
It comes some six months after the US group first rejected an unsolicited offer .
Jurgen Hambrecht , BASF chief executive , said he was confident of getting at least half of Engelhard stock in the next five days , having made shareholders of the US group a " last and final " improved offer last week .
The German company had long refused to budge from an initial bid of Dollars 37 per share , arguing the offer was fully priced .
It raised it by a dollar when Engelhard unveiled plans to buy back one-fifth of all its stock at Dollars 45 per share and promised investors good profit and sales growth .
As the self-imposed tender deadline of June 5 approached , BASF offered another dollar .
Both sides were set for a showdown at Engelhard 's annual meeting , scheduled for Friday .
That gathering has been postponed indefinitely following the agreed takeover worked out by bankers in recent days .
People close to the German side of the deal said it was Mr Perry who contacted Mr Hambrecht a few days ago to propose talks about a deal .
Advisers spent the weekend agreeing details of BASF 's largest acquisition .
Mr Perry said he and his fellow board members had decided on an agreed deal to end uncertainty about the group 's future .
In a statement , the company valued the deal at Dollars 5.6bn , including corporate debt .
People close to the deal said Mr Perry would be leaving the company when the takeover was complete .
BASF has promised to transfer the headquarters of its existing catalysts unit to Iselin , New Jersey - Engelhard 's base .
Restructuring and a strong chemicals cycle has provided BASF with strong profits in recent months .
BASF has already used part of a big cash pile to buy the construction chemicals unit of Degussa , a German rival , for about Euros 3bn .
Mr Hambrecht has likened the Engelhard deal to the purchase of Wintershall , a gas supplier , more than 30 years ago , when BASF used bumper profits to reduce exposure to chemicals .
The unit is its most profitable .
Lehman Brothers advised BASF and Merrill Lynch advised Engelhard .
