Evangelism belies change at Barclays
News analysis ; Investors appear supportive of the bank 's strategic review , write FT reporters
Antony Jenkins was in his element yesterday .
After a tone-setting spot of sepulchral organ music , the newish chief executive of Barclays took to the stage of London 's Royal Horticultural Hall at 10.30am to tell the assembled media about the strategic review he had begun when he won the top job six months ago .
Mr Jenkins - pristine in shiny buckled shoes and Barclays cyan-blue tie - delivered a well-trailed message of the bank 's new ethical standards .
There was a responsible new tax code and a sermon to peers on society 's changed attitudes to banking .
In one way it was all very British - relatively low key , and in tune with the political feedback the bank has been showered with ever since Mr Jenkins ' American predecessor , Bob Diamond , was ejected last year following the bank 's pound(s)290m Libor rate-manipulation fine from regulators .
But there was a hint of American evangelism about the message , too .
The hall - deliberately chosen as a real-world location away from Barclays ' Canary Wharf headquarters - was branded with slick buzzwords to hammer home Mr Jenkins ' belief in " respect " , " integrity " , " service " , " excellence " and " stewardship " , spelling out one of the chief executive 's signature acronyms .
However , there was a fair amount of substance , too - in particular , a detailed analysis of the bank split into 75 business lines which were then judged against a range of performance and reputational criteria .
The conclusion - that 39 businesses are fine , 15 need to be tweaked , 17 need serious attention to avoid closure or sale , and four are definitely for the axe - will have important consequences .
The most closely watched area for overhaul is Barclays ' investment banking business .
Aside from the planned closure of the bank 's controversial tax structuring business , the pullback from agricultural commodities and two legacy fixed income units , two other unspecified proprietary trading operations will be stopped .
Otherwise , the changes in the investment banking division are modest .
Barclays ' Asian equities business will be trimmed to focus on non-Asian clients , driving the bulk of the division 's 1,800 job cuts .
Analysts said Barclays ' good market position in investment banking in general and debt trading in particular had stopped management from wielding a stronger axe in this publicly disliked business unit .
" Barclays is not a UBS where you can just scale fixed income down , " says Kian Abouhossein , analyst at JPMorgan .
" You ca n't reduce RWAs [ risk-weighted assets ] materially in a business that makes most of your profits . "
The group 's results seemed to vindicate Mr Jenkins ' decision to chop slightly more jobs in the retail banking side than in investment banking .
In the past year , the investment bank was the main profit machine , accounting for 58 per cent of overall pre-tax earnings .
And in the fourth quarter , the unit outshone most rivals .
In the advisory businesses revenues where up 29 per cent sequentially compared with an average increase at European and US peers of 18 per cent .
In bond trading , the investment bank 's engine , Barclays ' revenues dropped 8 per cent compared with the third quarter , while its largest global rivals on average lost 26 per cent .
With fixed income revenues of pound(s)1.46bn in the fourth quarter , the bank has now overtaken Deutsche Bank , one of its main rivals .
Even in equities where Mr Jenkins is paring back the franchise , Barclays ' 9 per cent revenue fall was less severe than that of most rivals .
The strategic review also involves significant retrenchment from consumer banking , with 30 per cent of branches in continental Europe - mostly Italy and Spain - to be closed with the loss of 1,900 jobs .
There will be little change in the bank 's UK retail and Barclaycard divisions , and none of the proposals for these units highlighted in the review will mark a radical break with the past .
Investment products for retail banking customers will be sold online without accompanying advice , instead of through an independent financial adviser , although this process is already substantially under way and reflects a shift throughout the industry as a whole .
Another measure mentioned indirectly in the strategic plan referred to the ongoing rundown of a secured loans business , FirstPlus , which was closed to new customers in 2008 .
Between them the changes should allow Mr Jenkins to deliver a return on equity above the bank 's 11.5 per cent cost of capital by 2015 and underpin a more generous payout ratio to shareholders of 30 per cent versus the previous 20-25 per cent target .
Now all he has to do is follow through on the promises .
Judging by the 8.6 per cent jump in the share price yesterday , Mr Jenkins may already be preaching to the converted .
Reporting by Patrick Jenkins , Daniel Schafer and Jennifer Thompson
Credit : By Patrick Jenkins , Daniel Schafer and Jennifer Thompson
