Falling food inflation takes a bite out of Tesco sales growth
Tesco 's underlying sales growth in the UK has dropped to its lowest levels in at least six years as falling food inflation hits the biggest grocer in the country .
The world 's third-biggest grocer yesterday reported underlying sales rose just 0.1 per cent , excluding fuel , in the first quarter .
This is the weakest growth recorded by Tesco since it started breaking out forecourt sales from the underlying grocery take in early 2004 .
Some analysts estimated the underlying grocery sales performance might have been the weakest by the retailer in more than a decade .
" I ca n't remember flat like-for-likes , " said Clive Black , an analyst at Shore Capital who has covered Tesco for more than 15 years .
" Although we are bulls [ on Tesco ] , we do n't rewrite facts and 0.1 per cent is a very subdued performance .
But it is not out of kilter within the market ; I would be more worried if it was . "
David McCarthy , an analyst at Evolution Securities , added the first quarter was the weakest performance he could remember since he started covering the company about two decades ago .
The whole of the industry has been hit on two counts this year .
Food inflation , which flatters grocers since it increases their take at the tills , has fallen sharply , while sales volumes are also more muted as people cut back on food shopping to pay for more expensive petrol .
Laurie McIlwee , Tesco 's finance director , said food inflation , which had been reaching 9 per cent or more a year ago , was now flat .
But he voiced confidence that trading would pick up in the coming months .
" If anything , trading outlook gets better because of inflation lapping [ on last year ] in the next three to four weeks .
A lot depends on how the [ government 's ] emergency Budget goes next week but , all other things being equal , our target should be to exit the year at 3-4 per cent [ underlying sales growth ] , " he said .
" The outlook is more positive . "
The sluggish performance comes at a critical time for Tesco .
The retailer is poised to embark on its most radical management shake-up in more than a decade after the announcement last week that Sir Terry Leahy would retire as chief executive in March 2011 after 14 years at the helm .
He is to be replaced by Philip Clarke , currently Tesco 's international and IT director .
Underlying growth including petrol rose 3.8 per cent in the 13 weeks to May 30 , while group sales rose 8.2 per cent in the same period .
Tesco shares closed 0.4 per cent lower at 390p .
Inflation falls , Page 4 People , Page 18
Credit : By Elizabeth Rigby , Consumer Industries Editor
