Footsie holds near high as Reits note rattles British Land
LONDON
The FTSE 100 held close to its 21-month high yesterday but British Land and Liberty International lagged behind the trend .
The stocks fell following a scathing note from Nomura analyst Mike Prew , who argued that real estate investment trusts had taken advantage of tax breaks without changing their debt levels to match .
Reits lose a tax shield on interest payments , making borrowing more expensive .
In spite of this , the sector remained " leveraged for sustained asset inflation " and was generating very thin retained profits as a result , Mr Prew said .
" To relay portfolio returns directly to shareholders , Reits need to delever , " he told clients .
" After all , managements have read the cycle poorly and investors need to be compensated for the mounting risk of a ' post QE [ quantitative easing ] relapse ' in property values . "
Nomura had " reduce " ratings on British Land , down 2.3 per cent to 463p , and Liberty International , off 1.2 per cent to 482 1/2 p.
The wider market rallied in tandem with Wall Street and the FTSE 100 bounced off a 1.2 per cent loss to close down just 0.1 per cent .
The index , which on Friday reached its highest level since June 2008 , ended 5.58 points lower at 5,644.54.
Energy stocks were the weakest as a rising dollar pushed oil to a three-week low and Friday 's unexpected Indian interest rate rise provided a catalyst to take profit .
BG Group , last week the subject of vague bid hopes , fell 1.8 per cent to pound(s)11.80 1/2 and Cairn Energy was down 1.4 per cent to 378 3/4 p.
Wolseley lost 2.1 per cent to pound(s)15.86 after Ian Meakins , its new chief executive , set out a restructuring plan that was more conservative and longer term than some investors had hoped .
Having hit a nine-year high last week , Autonomy was down 1.3 per cent to pound(s)18.13 after UBS cut the software maker off its " buy " list on valuation grounds .
UBS also noted that , while management had targeted a big acquisition for the autumn , the deal could come earlier .
J Sainsbury was 1.2 per cent off at 329 1/4 after ING analysts said the group 's trading update , due tomorrow , might disappoint .
Sales were likely to have seen a " dramatic slowdown " after cold weather and promotions from both Tesco and Asda , increasing the risk on full-year forecasts , they said .
Icap led the blue-chip fallers , dropping 2.6 per cent to 381 1/2 p on news that it will wind down its lossmaking cash equities business at a cost of pound(s)51m .
Ahead of interim results tomorrow , Smiths Group gained 2.5 per cent to pound(s)11.27.
Merrill Lynch restarted coverage of Smiths with a " buy " rating and pound(s)13 target , citing cost-cutting potential at its medical and mechanical seals businesses .
" Given the level of potential self-help , we believe that evidence of further restructuring , a better-than-expected margin performance or more explicit detail on margin goals will act as a catalyst for the stock , " the broker said .
The passing of the US healthcare reform bill helped drug stocks .
AstraZeneca gained 1 per cent to pound(s)29.70 and GlaxoSmithKline was 0.6 per cent firmer at pound(s)12.86.
Smith & Nephew rose 1.3 per cent to 578p following an investor roadshow , which suggested demand was stabilising though pricing remains under pressure .
Among the mid-caps , GKN took on 5.3 per cent to 131p after Evolution Securities repeated " buy " advice following a management meeting .
Arriva took on 1.5 per cent to 716p amid speculation that SNCF , the French state-owned transport group , has looked at gatecrashing its takeover talks with Deutsche Bahn .
Aegis edged up 1.1 per cent to 125p ahead of results today from Havas , its perennial suitor .
But Panmure Gordon said last week 's promotion of an insider to chief executive had reduced the chances of Aegis being broken up .
HMV led the retailers , up 2.9 per cent to 78p , as Nomura reiterated " buy " advice ahead of a trading update on Friday .
Repair and maintenance group Homeserve , which also reports on Friday , rose 2.8 per cent to pound(s)17.54 after RBS upgraded from " hold " to " buy " .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
