Footsie rallies as pressure grows on BHP to drop bid
LONDON
BHP Billiton was a top performer in a rising London market as pressure grew on the miner to abandon its $40bn bid for PotashCorp .
BHP gained 2.7 per cent to pound(s)22.21 following reports that Canada was backing away from approving the hostile takeover .
" The probability of the deal going ahead between BHP and Potash seems to be decreasing , " said Citigroup , which added that a collapse " would be a positive for the BHP share price in the short term " .
With the sharp rise in fertiliser prices , Potash shares had underperformed peers since June , in spite of BHP 's bid in August , Citi noted .
It also highlighted uncertainties about how the Saskatchewan government might tax BHP .
The province had estimated it could lose $2bn-$3bn from the takeover , and could raise royalties or impose an asset transfer tax if it finds BHP 's offer of $370m compensation insufficient , Citi added .
Investment Canada is expected to give its findings on the bid next Wednesday and could block BHP on grounds of national interest .
Failure of the bid would probably result in BHP returning about $20bn to shareholders , analysts said .
The wider market rallied after two days of declines .
The FTSE 100 rose 31.87 points , or 0.6 per cent , to 5,677.89.
Vodafone was up 2.7 per cent to 170 3/4 p after France Telecom pointed to improvement in Europe and amid continued speculation that the UK group might be nearing a deal with US joint venture partner Verizon .
While recent indications have been that Verizon Wireless would start paying dividends to its parents from 2012 , some analysts have argued that it might yet cut a deal to buy Vodafone 's minority stake in instalments .
Inmarsat firmed 2.7 per cent to 654 1/2 p , helped by a " buy " note from Liberum , which valued the satellite operator from pound(s)7 to pound(s)11 a share based on worst-case and best-case scenarios .
Chip designer Arm Holdings gained 3.2 per cent to 372p , bouncing back from profit-taking in the wake of Tuesday 's in-line quarterly results .
Morgan Stanley , repeating an " overweight " rating , said the group 's contract wins beyond the handset market still offered " significant upside " to forecasts .
Schroders took on 4.6 per cent to pound(s)15.95 and Aberdeen Asset Management added 0.9 per cent to 177p on the back of " overweight " recommendations from Morgan Stanley .
Recent takeovers had valued asset managers at about 11-12 times operating earnings , which made Schroders and Aberdeen look cheap at about eight times , Morgan Stanley said .
Among the banks , Standard Chartered was up 2.8 per cent to pound(s)18.25 amid a retread of talk that JPMorgan might be interested in bidding .
But traders cautioned that noise levels had increased since nil-paid rights to StanChart 's pound(s)3.3bn equity issue started trading on Wednesday .
Industrial stocks were under pressure following a profit warning from 3m .
GKN was 2.3 per cent lower at 174p and Invensys lost 2.2 per cent to 293p .
Smith & Nephew was down 2.4 per cent to 560p after its US competitor Zimmer cut full-year sales guidance in response to " challenging global economic conditions . "
Drugmaker AstraZeneca slipped 3.3 per cent to pound(s)31.39 after it tightened , rather than raised , its full-year earnings guidance .
Aggreko led the Footsie fallers , down 4.2 per cent to pound(s)15.92 on profit-taking after a trading statement from the generator hire group triggered only small upgrades to forecasts .
It was a similar story for Croda , the chemicals maker , which slipped 3 per cent to pound(s)14.70 after its results only matched expectations .
" The market may have been spoilt in recent years by upside surprises from Croda , " said BarCap , which saw better value elsewhere in the sector .
Premier Foods lost 4 per cent to 18p after a trading update showed volumes and pricing had weakened for both its branded and unbranded divisions .
Management warned that market trends , promotions and commodity cost inflation had all continued to worsen ahead of the Christmas season .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
