HGSI fights GSK bid with ' poison pill '

Human Genome Sciences stepped up its defence against GlaxoSmithKline 's $ 2.6bn hostile takeover bid with a " poison pill " and claims of talks with alternative buyers .

The US-based biotech said in a statement that it had " engaged in discussions with a number of other parties , including major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies , regarding a potential transaction . . . including , but not limited to , a sale " .

The announcement came as the company formally rejected as " inadequate " GSK 's $ 13 a share cash offer , which was launched last week to shareholders after it was rejected by the board . 
It also announced a poison pill designed to dilute the stake of a hostile bidder .

It said the GSK proposal significantly undervalued HGSI , which declared in a regulatory filing that it had $ 2.6bn in net operating loss carry-forwards and research and development tax credits alone .

The company said GSK - which estimates it can achieve annual cost savings of $ 200m following the takeover - had " opportunistically " tried to capitalise on a one-year low in HGSI 's stock price ahead of a series of future milestones for drug study findings and approvals .

GSK replied that its offer - at an 81 per cent premium to the closing share price just ahead of the bid - " represents full and fair value " .

It already has close links with HGSI , with joint development and commercialisation agreements for Benlysta , a medicine approved for lupus ; darapladib and albiglutide , its other leading experimental drugs ; and rilapladib , an earlier stage medicine in development to treat Alzheimer 's disease . 
Three HGSI directors also serve on advisory boards with links to GSK .

HGSI said GSK had rights until at least patent expiry in 2023 on Benlysta unless either company " commits a material breach " of their agreement .

It said Thomas Watkins , the chief executive , would receive $ 21m in shares , options and severance payments in the event of the takeover and his departure .

The filing said that Sir Andrew Witty , GSK 's chief executive , contacted Mr Watkins on April 11 to propose the cash offer . 
At a meeting a week later , the HGSI board concluded this did not reflect the full value of Benlysta and darapladib and sought to launch a search for strategic alternatives . 
GSK refused to participate in the process and launched its offer .

HGSI appointed Credit Suisse alongside Goldman Sachs as financial advisers , as Goldman Sachs had a conflict because of " capped call transactions " , which would pay out to the bank if GSK 's bid succeeded .

HGSI estimated Benlysta 's US sales potential at $ 7bn a year for an initial 200,000 lupus patients , with scope to expand to other similar diseases , although GSK 's response appeared to question the market size for Benlysta . 
It said there was a " multibillion-dollar market opportunity " for darapladib , on which it would receive post-approval a 10 per cent worldwide royalty from GSK and 20 per cent profit share in Europe and North America .

Mark Evans of THS Partners in London , which owns more than 5 per cent of HGSI , called for GSK to pay a higher price , arguing its bid did not reflect " control or for cost synergies " .
