Shell 's second cut more serious OIL & GAS

Royal Dutch / Shell has underlined the seriousness of its second reserves cut last year by estimating that the barrels of oil and gas removed were more valuable than those in its first , far bigger reduction .

The Anglo-Dutch oil group was initially forced to cut its proved oil and gas reserves by about 4.5bn barrels early last year , but was embarrassed in October when it admitted that a further restatement would be needed .

The second cut overshadowed the historic proposal to merge Shell 's Dutch and British holding companies in response to investor criticism about the reserves scandal .

In its annual report , published yesterday , Shell said the net present value of the 4.5bn barrels cut in the first restatement was about Dollars 6.65bn ( Pounds 3.65bn ) , when applied to the year 2002 .

However , the value of the second cut when applied to the same year was about Dollars 5.4bn , even though only 1.15bn barrels were removed , which was less than a third of the first reduction .

Shell said in the report that the majority of the barrels removed in the second restatement were in " higher margin areas " and in fields that were already producing , giving them a greater value .

Africa , which is dominated by Shell 's Nigerian operations , accounted for about 35 per cent of the second cut , Asia 26 per cent , Europe 21 per cent , the Middle East 3 per cent and the rest of the world 15 per cent .

The first restatement focused on long-term projects such as the Gorgon gas field in Australia where revenues were not expected for years , giving them a lower present value .

Separately yesterday , Shell said it would miss its 2008 deadline for ending the environmentally damaging practice of burning-off waste gas in Nigeria .

The Nigerian government has warned that companies that failed to meet the deadline would face punishment , including fines .

In its yearly Shell Report , which focuses on environmental , social and governance issues , the company said flaring cuts were " behind schedule " and that it now expects to stop flaring in 2009 .
