Southern Europe weakness checks Vodafone

A strong performance from Vodafone 's US business failed to offset weak demand in southern European , forcing the mobile operator to cut its growth target .

The group attributed a £ 4bn impairment charge in its annual results to lower cash flows from the struggling economies of Italy , Spain, Portugal and Greece . 
The drop in spending by cash-strapped consumers in southern Europe and tougher government regulation prompted the company to cut its medium-term revenue growth target by 1 percentage point to a range of 0-3 per cent .

" In places like Spain , Italy and Greece , the economic challenges will last for a while , " said Vittorio Colao , Vodafone chief executive .

" We are delivering robust numbers given the circumstances . 
It is not the results that are disappointing , it is the economies in some of our markets . "

The £ 4bn writedown was lower than the £ 6.8bn impairment a year ago , but highlighted the mobile operator 's continuing weakness in southern Europe , in contrast to the more stable markets of Germany , the UK and the Netherlands .

Service revenues in Europe fell 1.1 per cent compared to the previous year , weighed down by regulated cuts to wholesale charges paid to rival providers for connecting calls , known as mobile termination rates .

The story was different in the US where Verizon Wireless , the mobile operator 45 per cent owned by Vodafone , reported service revenues up 7.3 per cent year on year , contributing £ 4.9bn of profit to the British group .

Annual sales from data rose 22.2 per cent , driven by the ever-growing popularity of smartphones , and now represents almost 15 per cent of the group 's total service revenues . 
Some 45 per cent of Vodafone 's contract customers use a smartphone , up 11.5 percentage points from a year ago .

In the 12 months to March 31 , Vodafone reported flat pre-tax profit of £ 9.5bn from revenues up from £ 45.8bn to £ 46.4bn .

Diluted earnings per share fell from 15.11p to 13.65p , and a final dividend of 6.47p was proposed , up from 6.05p , bringing the total payout to shareholders for the year - including a 4p special dividend - to 13.52p , a rise of 51.9 per cent from the previous year .

Mr Colao refused to comment on Vodafone 's £ 1.04bn bid for Cable & Wireless Worldwide , which has been called into doubt due to shareholder resistance to the deal .

City pessimism , which has been highlighted by the shares trading at a discount to the offer price , was heightened on Monday when C&WW reported worse than expected figures .

Mr Colao also took a swipe at the Indian authorities for pursuing Vodafone for $ 2.6bn in capital gains tax following its acquisition of a controlling stake in Hutchison Essar , an Indian mobile business , in 2007 .

" We will take all possible steps to safeguard our shareholder interests , " he said .
Vodafone shares rose 1.8 per cent to 167.95p .
