BHP scales back expansion programme

Jac Nasser , chairman of BHP Billiton , said the global mining group had cut back its ambitious $ 80bn expansion programme and warned of a further easing of commodity prices .

At a business lunch in Sydney on Wednesday , in which he was openly critical of Australia 's ruling Labor party , Mr Nasser said the " environment " had changed since the plan was first announced by Marius Kloppers , BHP 's chief executive , in February 2011 .

" It 's all about the appropriate allocation of capital . 

When Marius talked about the $ 80bn , the environment was different , " he said .

Asked if that meant BHP would still spend $ 80bn on expansion projects by the end of the 2015 financial year he said : " No " .

His comments are the strongest hint yet that BHP is preparing to delay projects because of a weaker outlook for commodity prices as Chinese economic growth slows , and escalating costs in the mining industry .

" The tailwind of high commodity prices has contributed to record growth in the sector . 
Now we have a period where those tailwinds are moderating and we expect further easing over time , " said Mr Nasser .

" Where the industry previously lacked investment opportunities and choice , it now has more projects than cash flows . 
All of us in the industry are having to make choices . "

Earlier this month , Alberto Calderón , BHP 's head of aluminium , nickel and corporate development , said the miner would stagger its expenditure to match its cash flows , potentially slowing the development of three so-called mega projects .

The projects would be approved and managed in a way that " maximises value , reduces risk and balances short- and long-term returns , " Mr Calderón said .

Analysts believe BHP will press ahead with expansion of its iron ore mines in South Australia , which could cost as must as $ 22bn , because the company senses an opportunity to serve China 's need for steelmaking materials , while demand remains strong .

However , projects such as the expansion of the Olympic Dam copper-uranium mine in Western Australia or the Jansen potash project in Canada could be slowed and developed in phases , according to analysts .

In his speech to the Australian Institute of Company Directors , Mr Nasser criticised the ruling Labor government for tinkering with the tax regime .

" It is the right of governments to set the tax regime but I cannot overstate how the level of uncertainty about Australia 's tax system is generating negative investor reaction . 
People do n't know where it 's going , " he said .

Shares in BHP fell to 4 per cent to a near three-year low of A$32.49 on Wednesday in a weak Australian stock market .
