BHP Billiton drops Posco joint venture in east India IRON AND STEEL :

BHP Billiton has pulled out of a Dollars 10bn iron ore and steel joint venture with South Korea 's Posco in eastern India - the country 's largest foreign direct investment - after refusing to accept financial conditions laid out by the local government .

The move by the Australian group is a setback to the project , which had already been unsettled by disagreements over mining and export rights , and will add to concerns of global mining companies over investment in India .

Mittal Steel , the world 's biggest steel manufacturer , and Arcelor have expressed an interest in investing in mineral-rich east India , notably the state of Orissa .

Posco said it would proceed alone , making up the Dollars 1.2bn shortfall from its mining partner 's withdrawal , and it hoped to sign a much-delayed memorandum of understanding with the Orissa government " soon " .

A senior executive at BHP Billiton in India said the company was " disappointed " at having to pull out of the project , which is due to start producing steel in July 2009 with capacity rising from 2m tonnes a year to 12m tonnes by 2013 . 
He added the decision to pull out followed Orissa 's insistence on contractual conditions that made " the opportunity ( for us ) too small " . 
Orissa 's government said it would allocate iron ore and captive mining rights only to equity partners in the project 's steel mill .

BHP Billiton had earlier chosen not to hold equity , and told the government of its decision a month ago . 
Under the original joint- venture terms , BHP would have constructed an iron-ore stockyard , a port , and railway to ferry and export the minerals , and a coking plant .

BHP officials say discussions might resume with Posco on a possible role outside the joint venture to supply iron ore or build infrastructure . 
But the chances of participating in the 12m-tonne capacity steel project look slim , leaving BHP Billiton with little to show from a strategy designed to gain a strong foothold in Orissa , home to the bulk of India 's high-grade iron-ore reserves .

Ho Chan Ryu , Posco 's senior representative in Orissa , said the company " would like to resume its partnership in India with BHP Billiton " . 
But " without more favourable terms ( on the export of iron ore BHP ) may not be interested to come back merely as a contractor " .
