BP still in recovery mode after Gulf spill

Results suggest oil group has not yet reached a turning point in its fortunes , writes Guy Chazan


Six months ago , Bob Dudley , BP chief executive , stated that the company had reached a " definite turning point " in its fortunes after the ravages of the Deepwater Horizon -disaster in 2010 .

Yesterday 's first-quarter results show that may have been premature .

Underlying profits were $ 4.8bn , a 13 per cent decline on year-ago levels , despite strong oil prices , and came in below most analysts ' expectations .

Meanwhile , production , excluding its TNK-BP Russian joint venture , was down 6 per cent at 2.45m barrels a day .

The results show a company still in recovery mode two years after the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico , killing 11 men and triggering the world 's worst offshore oil spill . 
They also come days after BP 's biggest European rival , Royal Dutch Shell , unveiled rising production and profits that beat most analysts ' forecasts .

Analysts say BP appears to be in limbo , still waiting for promised growth to come through and still overshadowed by the threat of looming litigation over the spill . 
The company 's shares , which are down more than 30 per cent since the disaster , fell as much as 3.6 per cent yesterday , before closing down 0.8 per cent at 441.3p .

" There 's little evidence yet that the turnround strategy is gaining momentum , " says Ivor Pether , a senior fund manager at Royal London Asset Management , which owns £ 350m in BP stock . 
" They 've struggled to capture the benefit of stronger oil prices due to higher costs post-Macondo . "

Those costs have risen as BP has carried out safety reviews of its operations worldwide , gold-plating its projects , especially in the US , to bring them into compliance with tough new internal rules .

Others are willing to give Mr Dudley the benefit of the doubt . 
" They have turned a corner - without a shadow of a doubt , " says Tim Guinness , chief investment officer at Guinness Atkinson Asset Management . 
" They are moving on from Macondo . "

He cited two recent developments : BP 's $ 7.8bn out-of-court settlement with individuals and businesses affected by the spill , and the company 's gradual return to the Gulf of Mexico , where it is the largest licence holder and was , until the spill , the largest producer . 
BP currently has five drilling rigs in operation in the Gulf , a figure that is due to rise to eight by the end of the year - the largest number it has had there .

Mr Guinness adds that BP 's fall in production should not have come as a surprise , considering the company 's aggressive asset divestments over the past two years . 
Those disposals , which now total $ 23bn , were initially to pay for the oil spill , but latterly they have become part of a " shrink to grow " strategy as BP slims down to focus more tightly on high-growth opportunities .

" Shrink to grow is fine , but the problem is they 're still shrinking and not yet growing , " says Peter Hutton , an oil analyst at RBC Capital Markets .

That effect will continue . 
BP is targeting total sales of $ 38bn by the end of next year . 
It announced yesterday that it will sell five " non-strategic " Gulf of Mexico oilfields , which together account for about 50,000 barrels a day of production , leaving it better placed to focus on the big producing hubs such as Mad Dog , Thunder Horse and Atlantis . 
About 120,000 barrels of oil-equivalent capacity a day will be sold this year , company officials say .

BP also warns that output will fall in the second quarter , as some of its operations shut down for planned seasonal maintenance .

There are other causes for concern . 
The US Department of Justice is still investigating possible criminal and civil charges against BP that could lead to billions of dollars in fines . 
In its results , BP admitted there is still " significant uncertainty " over the amount of claims and fines that will ultimately be levied on the company and the outcome of litigation .

But of more concern to investors is uncertainty over whether BP will meet its own ambitious targets . 
Mr Pether of RLAM recalls that in October last year , BP said that by 2014 its operating cash flow would have increased by 50 per cent compared with 2011 . 
First-quarter numbers suggest it is not yet on track to meet that goal , he says .

" We need to see progress on milestones - signs that they 'll meet or beat their targets , " he adds .
