Shell defends pay and plans for Alaska

Environmental campaigners and shareholders clashed with Royal Dutch Shell at an annual meeting dominated by concerns over exploration in Alaska , slow progress tackling oil leakages in Nigeria , dividend policy and executive pay .

Shell , which faced criticism from retail investors at the meeting over pay increases for top executives , said that 9 per cent of its shareholders voted against its remuneration report .

In March it revealed chief executive Peter Voser took home EUR11.7m last year , more than double his pay in the previous 12 months , after lucrative long-term incentive plans paid out .

However , Mr Voser , along with the head of Shell 's remuneration committee Hans Wijers and other directors , were re-elected by overwhelming votes of 99 per cent or more to the board in spite of the revolt on pay .

Shell said its " remuneration policy firmly links executive compensation with the performance of the company " . 
The shares , which rose 11 per cent in 2011 but are down 15 per cent this year , yesterday gained 41.5p to £ 20.86½p .

Amid tight security at venues in The Hague in the Netherlands and London , Shell 's chairman Jorma Ollila and Mr Voser politely batted away dozens of questions criticising the environmental record of the Anglo-Dutch oil major .

Shell said it was still in talks with the Nigerian government and other parties about how best to proceed with proposals to spend $ 1bn on a clean-up and rehabilitation of the polluted areas of Ogoniland in the Niger Delta .

During protracted but generally well-tempered questioning on Shell 's handling of its Nigerian operations , one Dutch shareholder said : " I do n't want to be ashamed , and I do n't want to sell my shares . "

The company , which in March was issued with a claim for damages over two oil spills in the delta in 2008 , said it was keen to push ahead with the investment in remedying the pollution damage .

Mr Voser accepted that Shell bore much of the operational responsibility for oil spills but insisted the bulk of continuing spillage was the result of " illegal bunkering and refining " .

Mr Ollila also defended Shell 's ability to develop oilfields safely in Arctic waters as it prepares for exploratory drilling , in the face of arguments from a representative of local native Americans that the project ran a substantial risk of ecological devastation . 
" It is 50 years since the industry took its first steps of drilling in the Arctic , " he said .

He also defended Shell 's position of offering no increase in quarterly dividend payments of 42 cents over three years since 2009 .

Shell nudged the payment up by a 1 cent to 43 cents in April .

" Last year we represented 12 per cent of all dividends on the FTSE 100 , " he said .
