GSK turns hostile with $ 2.6bn bid for HGS

GlaxoSmithKline has formally turned its $ 2.6bn bid for Human Genome Sciences hostile , after its un-solicited approach to the US drug developer was dismissed last month .

The British pharmaceuticals group yesterday said it would not take part in the review of strategic alternatives - which could include a sale - announced by HGS after the offer , but would instead take its $13-a-share cash offer directly to HGS shareholders .

" It is important for HGS shareholders to understand that GSK is committed to proceeding with its offer , " GSK said , adding that its offer was not conditional on due diligence or financing .

It also claimed that the 20 business days for which its offer would remain open would give Nasdaq-listed HGS enough time to complete its review .

The move reflects an intensification of acquisition activity in the healthcare sector of late , and follows a hostile $ 6.8bn bid by Roche for Illumina , a US diagnostics company , which it withdrew last month .

GSK executives working on the deal have indicated they may not raise the bid , which they consider strong . 
The $ 13 offer is 81 per cent higher than the closing price of HGS shares the day before GSK 's approach was revealed publicly .

However , HGS shares which have traded higher than the offer price since GSK was rebuffed , closed down 0.2 per cent to $ 14.59 in New York . 
GSK shares , which have edged lower since last month 's offer was confirmed , closed down 1.39 per cent at £ 14.04 .

HGS said yesterday it would " carefully review and consider the offer " and make a recommendation within 10 days .

GSK has been working with HGS on Benlysta , which treats lupus , an autoimmune condition . 
The drug was rejected for use by the UK 's National Health Service as not cost effective .

The joint development and commercialisation agreement allocates Benlysta 's US sales to HGS and elsewhere to GSK . 
GSK envisages cost savings and greater potential for sales using its own commercial organisation following a full takeover .

HGS said $ 13 a share undervalued the company after GSK 's initial approach last month . 
GSK had been invited to participate in the review , HGS said last month , but there was no assurance of a deal .

There have long been rumours that GSK would make a bid for HGS , which also produces raxibacumab , a treatment for inhalation anthrax . 
HGS was one of the first biotech companies to emerge in the early 1990s following efforts to map the human genome .
