HSBC plans expansion in emerging markets CONSUMER FINANCE :

HSBC has begun its expansion in consumer finance in emerging markets including China , India , Mexico and Turkey , by targeting lower-income customers with the techniques of Household International , the US company it acquired for USDollars 13bn in 2003 .

The roll out of the Household model , which focuses on savers rejected by banks because of their poor credit history , is a crucial part of the UK-based bank 's efforts to sustain profit growth in the face of increased competition and a slowing global economy .

" This is a major programme for us . 
We are working hard in a number of countries , " Stephen Green , HSBC 's chief executive , said yesterday . 
" We intend to carry ( the Household model ) into other markets , such as China , India , Mexico and Turkey . "

After a meeting with Hong Kong-based shareholders , Mr Green said two senior executives from the former Household business , now called HSBC Finance , had been moved from Chicago to the territory to oversee the Asian expansion .

Household 's model - borrowing funds at low interest rates and lending them out at much higher ones to " sub-prime " customers - has become a key driver of profit growth at HSBC .

In 2004 , the personal finance business , which includes credit cards , accounted for about 30 per cent of group profit .

Emerging markets , where millions of people remain outside the banking system , are a natural target for HSBC Finance , which will use Household 's technology and statistical techniques to pick customers with a low chance of defaulting .

However , some analysts warn the lower level of sophistication of financial regulations in some emerging markets could make it more difficult for HSBC to minimise the risks tied to " sub-prime " customers .

In China , HSBC is expected to pioneer the Household model through its credit card joint venture with Bank of Communications , the country 's fifth-largest lender , in which it owns a 19.9 per cent stake . 
Last month BoCom won regulatory approval to issue the card bearing both lenders ' logos .

However , Mr Green denied recent reports that HSBC , which has invested about USDollars 4bn to buy stakes in Chinese banks and insurers , was working on an investment banking venture with a local broker .

Mr Green also indicated HSBC was not looking at acquisitions in South Africa , a market in the spotlight after Barclays bought a majority stake in Absa for R33bn ( Dollars 5.04bn ) - the biggest foreign investment in the country since the end of apartheid .

HSBC 's chief executive also reiterated the group 's plans to grow organically in South Korea , in a further sign the UK-based lender will not bid for Korea Exchange Bank .

