Buoyant BAT draws the benefit from IFRS TOBACCO :

New accounting rules helped British American Tobacco report a rise in first-quarter profit yesterday , despite a fall in sales , which briefly nudged the shares past the Pounds 10 mark .

The group 's first set of results under the new International Financial Reporting Standards were also boosted by strong performances in Russia and Africa , which offset declines in Canada , Japan and Malaysia .

Underlying earnings per share exceeded many forecasts , rising by 26 per cent compared with estimated rises of about 10 per cent .

The group , which makes Kent , Dunhill and Lucky Strike cigarettes , was helped by cost reductions , a lower tax rate and the share buy-back programme .

BAT also benefited from changes in its distribution agreements in Italy and the Reynolds American transaction , which last year saw BAT merge its US operations with those of RJ Reynolds .

But Jan du Plessis , chairman , cautioned that comparisons would become more difficult as the year progressed and that the current earnings growth was not indicative of the rest of year .

Analysts predicted that growth would be closer to 10 to 12 per cent .

The rise was , however , enough to enable BAT 's shares to breach the Pounds 10 mark for the first time . 
They later closed 21 1/2p higher at 995 1/2p .

During the quarter , organic volume growth rose by 0.6 per cent , reversing the trend of volume decline from others in the sector .

But Paul Adams , chief executive , said he was expecting better growth for the year as whole . 
" I would be very disappointed if it was n't 1 to 1.5 per cent , " he said .

Most of BAT 's geographic regions reported higher profits , with the exception of America Pacific , where profits fell Pounds 35m to Pounds 88m as the Canadian market continued to feel the effects of higher duty that has prompted smokers to turn away from premium brands to value cigarettes .

In Japan , increased competition from Japan Tobacco was behind volume and profit falls .

The separation out of Reynolds American , which is now counted as an associate , also dented profits and volumes .

The results for the quarter were complicated by IFRS , which caused pre-tax profit to rise from Pounds 575m to Pounds 624m in the three months to March 31 , as post-tax profit from BAT 's associates were added back into the results .

Operating profit fell from Pounds 604m to Pounds 582m , and were hit by the sale of Etinera , the distribution group , and the new treatment of BAT 's 42 per cent stake in Reynolds American .

Turnover fell from Pounds 2.6bn to Pounds 2.1bn , and earnings per share were 22 per cent higher at 20.26p ( 16.65p ) .
