HSBC customer loses damages case

HSBC has won an important court case against a wealthy customer who sued its private bank after it reported transactions from his account as being " suspicious " .

The case has been closely watched by other banks who were concerned that they could be exposed to legal action by customers for simply complying with their obligations under the Proceeds of Crime Act .

The banking sector files thousands of suspicious activity transactions , or SARs , to the Serious Organised Crime Agency each year .

At the High Court yesterday Mr Justice Supperstone ruled in favour of HSBC and dismissed a $ 300m claim for damages brought by Jayesh Shah and his wife , who have business interests in central Africa and Zimbabwe .

The long-running case centred on Mr Shah , a customer with HSBC Private Bank for eight years , who transferred $ 28m to his HSBC account in London from an account at Crédit Agricole , the French bank .

When he tried to transfer most of the money back to Crédit Agricole in 2006 , he was told by HSBC that " it could not effect the transaction because it was complying with its UK statutory obligations " as the bank had made a suspicious activity report to a regulatory authority .

In each case , HSBC told Mr and Mrs Shah that it was complying with its statutory obligations but declined to provide any further information to them or their solicitors . 
The couple alleged that they were stigmatised in Zimbabwe and suspected of criminal activity because of HSBC , causing authorities there to freeze and seize their assets .

Mr Shah denied any involvement in money laundering and the transfers eventually took place . 
The ruling found that it was not HSBC 's delay in executing the payment instructions and its failure to provide information but the Zimbabwean authorities ' own pre-existing or independent concerns that led to the losses by the claimants .

Mr Justice Supperstone also said in that " in my judgment Mr Shah was able to , but did not , take reasonable steps to mitigate or avoid his loss " .

Daren Allen , partner at Berwin Leighton Paisner , who acted for HSBC in the case , said there had been considerable debate about the obligations owed to the customer of a bank when it had made a suspicious activity report to the Serious Organised Crime Agency .

He said the court decision would " be welcomed by firms who feared they may be liable for damages for simply complying with their legal obligations under the Proceeds of Crime Act " .

The HSBC case has been running for four-and-a-half years and has been the subject of six reported decisions and three hearings before the Court of Appeal .
