Unilever 's pay criticised by shareholders FOOD PRODUCERS :

Unilever 's management came under fire from investors at yesterday 's annual meeting for accepting higher pay packages while delivering poor results .

More than 12 per cent of Unilever shareholders voted against the 2004 remuneration report , up from the 2.63 per cent vote against the 2003 report and 6.7 per cent on the 2002 report , according to Manifest , an independent corporate governance and proxy voting service . 
The votes failed to stop the resolution being approved .

Investors expressed their frustration with a Pounds 1.2m payout awarded to Niall FitzGerald , the company 's former chairman and chief executive , and questioned the circumstances surrounding his retirement from Unilever in September .
 
Mr Cescau , Unilever 's chief executive , described Mr FitzGerald 's leaving as " a negotiated departure " , while Betrand Collomb , a non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee , added Mr FitzGerald had left to ensure a smooth management succession and it was " a mutually agreed decision " .

Investors also questioned the rise in executive directors ' compensation , which increased to Pounds 14.4m in 2004 compared with Pounds 7.9m in 2003 .

" ( Unilever 's ) results are not really worthy of the high-paid executive directors that we have , " said Fred Jackson , a former employee and shareholder . 
" Mediocre results I think deserve mediocre payment . "

Unilever 's overall turnover fell 6 per cent in 2004 compared with the year before , while net profit fell 32 per cent and underlying sales rose just 0.4 per cent .

Mr Cescau admitted the company 's performance had been poor and it had failed to focus enough on customers . 
But he said a recent management re-organisation would give regional presidents more responsibility for their customers .

He defended Unilever 's " Path to Growth " strategy , which involved consolidating its brands , and its " Vitality " mission , which focused on changes in consumers ' diets and lifestyles .

Mr Cescau said he believed " Path to Growth " remained " the right strategy " and Unilever would continue to direct its brands to take account of changing consumer habits .

He also reaffirmed Unilever 's commitment to its pension obligations , which total Euros 3.8bn ( Pounds 2.6bn ) . 
He said the next actuarial valuation would be towards the end of the year and the company would close its actuarial gap over the next 10 years .
