Activists query intervention for Shell

UK steps in over Niger Delta claims

Legal brief in US case raises concerns


The UK government is facing pressure from human rights activists about its decision to intervene in a US court case connected to Royal Dutch Shell , the oil major

The UK government and the Dutch government have jointly filed a so-called " amicus brief " to the US Supreme Court on the side of Shell in the long-running Kiobel v Royal Dutch Petroleum case .

This lawsuit was brought by Niger Delta communities , which are suing the oil company .

The case has been brought in the US under the controversial Alien Tort statute , a 1789 law that is used by human rights lawyers to sue multinational companies in US courts over involvement in alleged human rights abuses abroad .

At stake in the Shell case is the fundamental legal principle that corporations can be sued for civil wrongs in US civil courts just as any individual . 
The Alien Tort Statute lay dormant until the 1980s , when human rights lawyers began employing it in lawsuits against companies .

The Corporate Responsibility Coalition ( Core ) , a group of human rights and environmental non-government organisations , has said it is now seeking to find out why the UK government has chosen to get involved in the case .

Amnesty , one of the groups involved , has urged the UK 's foreign affairs select committee to ask the Foreign Office why it has intervened .

It also notes that the US government is siding with the petitioners , who want to see corporations continue to be liable under international law .

Marilyn Croser , co-ordinator of Core , argues that it is crucial to have the Alien Tort statute to be able to bring lawsuits in the US .

She said : " Victims of corporate human rights abuses in developing countries face huge obstacles when they try to access justice .

" As shown in this case , local systems often do not deliver , making it essential to have avenues such as the US Alien Tort Claims Act . "

Shell did not wish to comment on the court case . 
The Foreign Office said in a statement that the UK had a strong reputation as a defender of human rights .

It said : " The UK / Dutch brief is concerned solely with the position under international law of the following issues : liability of corporations for human rights violations , extraterritoriality and the exhaustion of local remedies . "

It added : " We believe that human rights obligations rest with states - and not with non-state actors such as corporations .

" It is the UK 's wellestablished position that corporations can and should be held to account for their activities before a court which can exercise jurisdiction over those activities in accordance with established rules of international law . "
