BHP wins approval for $ 20bn ' mega-project '

BHP Billiton has received the final environmental approval for its $ 20bn iron ore project in Western Australia , as the world 's biggest mining groups come under pressure from shareholders to take a more cautious approach to investment .

The London-listed miner said on Thursday that Australia 's federal government had approved the project , which involves the expansion of the Outer Harbour at Port Hedland , enabling BHP to expand its exports of iron ore to about 350m tonnes a year by 2022 .

The entire project , including work at the mine itself , could cost in excess of $ 20bn , according to analysts at Deutsche Bank .

The Outer Harbour development - one of BHP 's " mega-projects " that will total as much as $ 100bn in capital expenditure over the next 15 years - is likely to be considered by the miner 's board later this year .

Jac Nasser , BHP 's chairman , this month said that the mining industry now has " more projects than cash flows . 
All of us in the industry are having to make choices " .

His comments echoed those of Alberto Calderón , chief executive of aluminium , nickel and corporate development at BHP , who has said that the miner 's capital spending would be approved and managed in a way that " maximises value , reduces risk and balances short and long-term returns " .

Analysts expect BHP to press ahead with the Outer Harbour expansion , which requires the construction of a 4 km jetty and the dredging of a 30 km channel into the ocean .

BHP sees Chinese demand for iron ore remaining strong until 2024 , offering an opportunity to feed the nation 's appetite for steelmaking materials . 
Last year the miner produced about 144m tonnes of iron ore from its operations in Western Australia .

Other projects - such as the Olympic Dam copper and uranium mine and the development of Jansen , a potash project in Canada - are more likely to be phased out or delayed , argue analysts .

Thursday 's approval " completes the process of environmental assessment for the Outer Harbour Development " , said BHP , but underlined that the first phase of the project remains " subject to board approval " .
