Pharmaceuticals company moves to stop diversion of Aids drugs GLAXOSMITHKLINE :

GlaxoSmithKline , the pharmaceuticals group that is the largest single supplier of humanitarian Aids drugs for developing countries , has said it is close to implementing tough measures to stem the illegal diversion of these medicines back into developed countries .

The company aims by the end of this year to have fully implemented an anti-fraud identification system , including packaging , labelling and a red coating on the Combivir and Epivir antiretroviral tablets it supplies at cost to the poorest countries . 
The tablets sold at commercial rates are white .

Recent prosecutions have revealed widespread diversion of drugs destined for the poorest countries , which are intercepted by criminal intermediaries , repackaged and re-exported for re-sale at much higher retail prices .

Dowelhurst , a UK-based company , is expected in the coming days to make a cash payment to Aids charities following a long-running legal dispute , after GSK accused it of involvement in the sale in Europe of anti-retroviral drugs that had been destined for Africa .

Dowelhurst is licensed to undertake legal " parallel trade " to take advantage of pharmaceutical price differences between European countries , and stressed that it had purchased the drugs in good faith .

Graham Satchwell , a former policeman who heads Proco Solutions , a consultancy that tracks the diversion of drugs , said the problem was growing . 
" I have been involved investigating a dozen cases of large-scale diversion of pharmaceuticals and healthcare products , including four or five involving antiretrovirals . "

While working for GSK , Mr Satchwell led Operation Highlighter , an investigation into the diversion of its Aids drugs from their intended destination of Senegal . 
His inquiries have led to legal actions in France , Switzerland and other European countries .

GSK is separately pursuing a series of other investigations , including one involving the diversion of drugs it supplied to Kenya . 
The litigations mark a more aggressive approach by the group to tackling misuse of its drugs . 
Until recently , the pharmaceutical industry has sought to avoid the negative publicity associated with the illegal trade in medicines .

GSK , which estimates that it provides two-fifths of humanitarian antiretroviral supplies , said that up to a quarter of the drugs by volume was illegally diverted in 2002 , the first full year of its low-cost deliveries , although it believed the proportion has declined since then .

The company knew there was a risk of diversion when the programme began three years ago , but preferred to begin the low-cost supplies immediately rather than await lengthy regulatory approvals for new packaging and colouring .

The efforts against the illegal diversion of cheap drugs come at a time of intensifying pressure by the pharmaceutical industry against legal parallel trade by companies , including Dowelhurst .

Drugs manufacturers have been lobbying governments to reduce or eliminate parallel trading , arguing that it benefits only the intermediaries , rather than providing profits to fund future research , or cost savings for national health systems .
