BP to invest $ 400m to end pollution case

BP has agreed to invest $ 400m in air pollution reduction equipment at its Whiting refinery in Indiana in a precedent-setting legal case brought by the US government and environmental groups .

The US Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Justice had been threatening to take away permits needed for BP 's multibillion-dollar modernisation of the refinery because of alleged violations of the Clean Air Act during construction and operation at the refinery .

The agreement is expected to set a standard for pollution control throughout the US refining industry .

Under the settlement announced on Wednesday afternoon , BP will spend $ 400m on projects to cut air pollution from Whiting , which is less than 20 miles south of central Chicago .

The new equipment includes more compressors to cut the waste gas that is sent for flaring , improved flare stacks that will burn off pollutants more efficiently and monitors to check for refinery emissions in local communities . 
In some cases , that equipment will be more advanced than the pollution controls required in other US refineries , environmental campaigners said .

The investment is expected to cut the refinery 's annual emissions of pollutants such as benzene and sulphur dioxide by about 4,000 tonnes , reducing local health problems such as asthma .

BP also agreed to pay $ 8m in fines for alleged pollution limit violations going back to 2001 .

The case brought by the US authorities followed action from environmental groups including the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Sierra Club , which had challenged air pollution permits issued to BP in 2008 for the modernisation of Whiting .

The government argued that BP had breached a 2001 agreement over pollution controls at all its US refineries .

" BP North America has not lived up to all of its obligations under an earlier settlement agreement and has committed new violations of the Clean Air Act , " said Ignacia Moreno , US assistant attorney-general . 
" This settlement secures a significant penalty , requires state-of-the-art controls , and is a fair and just resolution . "

Steve Cornell , president of BP Products North America , said the company was " pleased to have reached an agreement that protects jobs , consumers , and the environment " .

He added : " This multibillion-dollar modernisation project is the largest private-sector investment in Indiana history and ensures the Whiting refinery will continue to provide fuel and jobs for the region for decades to come . "

Whiting plays a central role in BP 's US refining strategy . 
The company is restructuring its American refining business , and plans to sell its refineries at Texas City , its largest , and Carson , California by the end of the year .

The Whiting refinery will be BP 's largest once Texas City is sold , and the modernisation project - estimated to cost $ 3.8bn in the most recent published figure - will enable it to process oil from the Canadian tar sands , which are expected to make an increasingly important contribution to US fuel supplies but have been strongly attacked by environmentalists .

The refinery will still be able to use tar sands oil , but Ann Alexander of the NRDC said the settlement would " ensure local communities in north-west Indiana and Chicago 's south side will be protected from the worst air pollution impacts " .

Eric Schaeffer of the Environmental Integrity Project , which works to fight pollution , said the Whiting agreement would be a model for how refineries could cut their emissions .

" When a refinery needs a permit , " he said , " the EPA can say : ' The permit will require you to use the best technology available and will require you to do what BP has done ' . "

BP has also been in talks with the US government over a possible deal to resolve actions resulting from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster .

A trial of the civil case arising from that disaster , including penalties and damages sought by the US federal , state and local governments , has been set for January 14 next year .


