HSBC sees ' marked ' rise in bad debts

HSBC added to concerns about consumer debt yesterday , saying it had seen a " marked " increase in bad and doubtful debts in the first quarter .

Sir John Bond , chairman , told the bank 's annual meeting that recent rises in interest rates and a slowing housing market were affecting consumer confidence and the level of bad debts .

" We have seen a noticeable and marked increase in bad and doubtful debts in unsecured personal lending , but this is entirely manageable for HSBC , " Sir John said .

His comments followed Thursday 's report from Barclays of a significant rise in bad debt losses . 
UK consumer debt has risen to more than Pounds 1,000bn , but while high-street retailers have suffered from a slowdown in spending there had been little evidence of borrowers defaulting .

Analysts were unconcerned about HSBC 's situation in the UK and said the increase in bad debts had been flagged by the group at its full-year results in February and again in April .

Peter Toeman , at Morgan Stanley , said : " This does n't represent a sea change for HSBC as it did with Barclays . 
It is a recognition of what was already evident . "

James Hamilton , at WestLB , added that the UK made up a much smaller proportion of HSBC 's business than it did for most other UK-listed banks , though he cautioned that the UK was close to the top of the economic cycle . 
" We normally only see provisioning expectations change as the cycle is well into turning down , " he said .

Shares in the group , which rose 5p on Thursday as other banks ' stock took a hit , slipped 2p to 868p yesterday . 
Barclays lost further ground yesterday .

Analysts were more concerned at what the near future held for HSBC in the US . 
Mr Toeman said US bankruptcies were picking up ahead of a change in legislation and while the bank 's US business had a positive first quarter , that could be " as good as it gets " .

Sir John told shareholders that recent trends in US payroll and employment data suggested economic momentum had been sustained . 
He added that credit experience at Household International , the US consumer finance business it bought in 2003 , had continued to improve .

However , consumer finance lends to customers often refused finance by banks , and one analyst said these were the kinds of people likely to lose their jobs first in any downturn . 
Debt strain , Page M2
