BP succeeds in delaying damages trial


BP has succeeded in its attempt to delay a trial over damages arising from the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico , overcoming objections from the US federal government and gulf coast states that had wanted a trial to start by the summer .

The judge in New Orleans who has been hearing the case held a private conference on Thursday morning with lawyers for all sides involved , and in the afternoon announced a new trial date of January 14 2013 .

The trial , which will address civil actions from private sector plaintiffs and the US authorities , but not any criminal charges , had originally been scheduled to begin in February .

It was delayed after BP and lawyers representing individuals and businesses affected by the spill agreed a settlement of their legal action , worth an estimated $ 7.8bn , which was granted preliminary approval on Wednesday .

BP is still facing action from US federal , state and local governments , while other companies involved including Transocean and Halliburton are facing claims from the authorities and the private sector .

The US government and the state of Alabama had argued that a trial of those cases should begin by the summer , because damages payments from BP were needed quickly to restore the gulf coastline .

However , BP had argued that a trial could not begin until a final resolution of its settlement with the private sector plaintiffs , which will come after a hearing scheduled for November 8 .

By January 14 , it is possible the US Department of Justice , the federal authority running the case against BP , could be in transition to a new administration .

If Mitt Romney , set to be the Republican candidate in November 's election , wins the presidency , he will take over on January 20 .

DoJ officials say enforcement actions are always separated from political influence .

However , the attorney-general , who leads the DoJ , is a political appointment , and analysts have speculated that a different attorney-general could take a different view of the case .

Eric Holder , the present attorney-general , said on Wednesday that more criminal charges were likely in connection with the disaster , after charges of obstruction of justice were filed last month against a former BP engineer .

Kurt Mix , who has been accused of deleting from his mobile phone text messages relating to the rate at which oil was flowing from the well , pleaded not guilty to the charges at a separate court hearing in New Orleans on Thursday .

BP and the plaintiffs ' lawyers are launching an advertising campaign to tell people how to claim for a share of their settlement .

Lawyers for the two sides will begin placing adverts in about 2,100 national and local newspapers , as well as magazines , websites and television and radio stations , telling people how to file a claim .

There will also be mailshots to potential claimants who can be identified from legal records and the Gulf Coast Claims Facility , the BP-backed compensation fund that has been wound up to be replaced by lawyers administering the settlement .

The two sides estimate that 83 per cent of the US adults will see the adverts an average of 3.8 times , while 95 per cent of the residents of the gulf coast region will see them an average of 8.8 times .

In a joint court filing last month , BP and the plaintiffs ' lawyers said the campaign " may come to be regarded as one of the most comprehensive and elaborate " notice programmes in litigation history .

The wording is agreed by both sides and approved by the court . 
BP is picking up the bill but has not disclosed how much the campaign will cost .

Anyone who wants to share in the settlement must file a claim by the deadline , and give up all rights to sue BP over any of the issues covered by the settlement .

Until the final number of claims is known , the cost of the settlement to BP remains uncertain .

BP has estimated it at $ 7.8bn , an amount that it will be able to meet within the $ 37.2bn that it has set aside for spill costs , but the eventual outcome could be higher or lower .

Although about 100,000 plaintiffs had active claims against BP when the settlement was agreed in March , tens of thousands more could come forward with claims for financial loss and health effects .
