Vodafone steps up its aggressive buy-back

Vodafone 's board will today ratify an extension of the mobile operator 's aggressive share buy-back programme after repurchasing Pounds 564.7m of stock in the past eight weeks .

The company , which bought back Pounds 4bn of shares last year , is expected to announce a continuation of the programme together with its full-year results tomorrow .

Board members , who discussed the figures at a formal meeting last week , will sign off on the buy-back today .

Industry analysts are forecasting a similar size repurchase for the current financial year , but expectations of a richer programme - perhaps reaching Pounds 4.5bn - have gathered pace following continued buy-backs in the current financial year .

Vodafone has spent more than Pounds 560m since the start of April and now holds 4.19bn of its own shares , or 6.5 per cent of the total ordinary shares in issue .

The company has instructed several banks to buy shares on its behalf , with Goldman Sachs purchasing 3.5m shares in the most recent transaction at an average of 139.2p .

At the end of last week , Vodafone shares rose by 3 per cent to close at 145p , close to their 52-week high of 148 1/2p .

Today 's board meeting will also reaffirm plans for a more generous dividend pay-out as Vodafone prepares to announce underlying earnings up 2.3 per cent at Pounds 12.9bn on sales of Pounds 34bn , compared with Pounds 33.6bn last time .

The telecommunications industry will be watching Vodafone 's results for indications of growth in demand for third-generation services and any signs of a turnround in its troubled Japanese business .

Analysts at Lehman Brothers are expecting the company to report about 1.5m 3G subscribers at the end of March . 
This could raise doubts about Vodafone 's target of reaching 10m subscribers by the end of the current financial year .

The company may reveal details of mass-marketing campaigns for 3G offers and more aggressive promotion to help kick-start demand .

In Japan , Vodafone is likely to point to continued subscriber volatility .

The group has warned it could take up to 15 months to revive the business , and SG Equity Research warned of little improvement in subscriber trends during April .

In spite of these problems , there , Vodafone 's pre-tax profits are expected to rise modestly from Pounds 10bn to Pounds 10.2bn with the total number of subscribers likely to rise about 10 per cent this year from the 151.8m total at the end of last year .

Given the group 's estimated free cash flow of almost Pounds 7bn , Arun Sarin , chief executive , has promised increased dividends and buy backs as a tool to reward shareholders . 
Vodafone declined to comment .
