BHP shifts spending strategy

BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest mining company by market value , has moved to soothe shareholder nerves about its ambitious investment programme by saying it will match capital expenditure closely with cash flows and stagger its pipeline of large projects .

In a series of meeting with analysts and investors , Alberto Calderon , chief executive of aluminium , nickel and corporate development at BHP , has flagged how revised cash flow forecasts will affect the company 's investments plans , according to people who attended the briefings .

" The key message was that BHP will be staggering capex to match cash flow , and with expectations of cash flow having being lowered over the past 12 months due to concerns over Europe ... there is less cash available to be spent on projects , " said Citigroup analyst Clarke Wilkins .

However , BHP is unlikely to bow to shareholder pressure for a share buyback . 
" Even though capex is likely to be lower , enough projects appear to be able to meet hurdle rates to consume cash flow generated , meaning buybacks would not appear imminent , " said Mr Wilkins .

BHP has three large projects with an estimated capital cost in excess of $ 50bn due to be submitted for board approval by the end of the company 's financial year in June 2012 . 
They are the expansion of BHP 's Olympic Dam copper and uranium mine in South Australia , the Port Hedland Outer Harbour project in Western Australia and the Jansen potash development in Canada .

Speculation had been mounting that at least one of those investments would be delayed . 
The company has been criticised by some shareholders for looking to push ahead with all three , given the uncertain global economic outlook , slowing growth in China and rising costs .

Analysts said BHP is likely to proceed with the $ 20bn Outer Harbour iron ore project that involves the construction of a 4 km jetty and the dredging of a 30 km channel out into the Indian Ocean , and stagger development of the other the projects .

" We believe the chances of all three projects receiving investment sanction over the next 12 to 18 months are very low , " said Lee Bowers , analyst at Macquarie Securities .

Unlike Outer Habour , Olympic Dam and Jansen , which are targeting energy and food markets , are considered late-cycle economic projects that can be pushed back without too much impact on returns .

In addition , the economics of the Olympic Dam project could become less favourable if Wayne Swan , the Australian treasurer , removes a diesel fuel rebate and the ability to offset the cost of removing overburden , or waste material , from a mine against tax . 
Mr Swan has vowed to return the budget to a surplus by 2012/13 .

" BHP thinks there 's a window of opportunity in the iron ore market before demand starts heading south in 2025 ... and they can make good money from the [ Pilbara ] in that time , ' said Glyn Lawcock , the Sydney-based head of resource research at UBS .

Mr Lawcock believes Marius Kloppers , BHP 's chief executive , could use a speech he is due to make at a conference in Miami later this month to provide more detail on the company 's strategy .

Shares in BHP were 0.4 per cent higher at A$36.10 in Sydney trading on Wednesday afternoon .
