European woes lead Vodafone to cut target



HIGHLIGHT : mobile & telecoms


A strong performance by Vodafone in the US and emerging markets failed to offset weak demand in southern Europe , prompting the British mobile operator to cut its growth expectations for 2013 .

Poor economic conditions in Italy , Spain , Portugal and Greece forced Vodafone to book a £ 4bn impairment charge in its full-year results , which it blamed on a drop in spending by consumers and tighter government regulation .

The FTSE 100 company yesterday cut its medium-term revenue growth target for the current financial year by 1 percentage point to between 0 per cent and 3 per cent . 
In the 12 months to March 31 , Vodafone reported flat pre-tax profit of £ 9.5bn on a 1.2 per cent rise in revenues to £ 46.4bn .

However , investors pushed up Vodafone shares 4.3 per cent to 172p thanks to a proposed 52 per cent jump in the group 's full-year dividend to 13.52p , and a strong performance in the US . 
Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator 45 per cent owned by Vodafone , reported service revenues up 7.3 per cent year on year and contributed £ 4.9bn to the group 's bottom line .

Service revenues rose almost 11 per cent year on year at Vodafone 's India division , while the group 's UK arm registered positive growth of 1.3 per cent .

" We are delivering robust numbers given the circumstances , " said Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive . 
" It is not the results that are disappointing , it is the economies in some of our markets . "

The £ 4bn writedown - about half of which came from Vodafone 's Italian business - was lower than the £ 6.8bn impairment a year ago . 
Service revenues in Europe fell 1.1 per cent compared with the previous year , weighed down by cuts to wholesale charges paid to rival providers for connecting calls , known as mobile termination rates .

Mr Colao   took a swipe at the Indian government 's fresh efforts to prise $ 2.6bn in capital gains tax from Vodafone over its 2007 acquisition of a controlling stake in Hutchison Essar . 
Mr Colao said the problem lay with the regulators and some of the bureaucrats , rather than the market . 
" It 's time for the political leadership in India to look the bureaucrats in the eyes and ask whether this is what they want for their country , " he said .

The group 's Indian subsidiary has invested about Rs500bn ( $ 9bn ) in the country since it paid $ 10.9bn for the stake . 
However , Vodafone has since endured a difficult five years , with fierce price wars , policy uncertainty and regulatory wrangling reducing the value of the group 's Indian operations by as much as a third , analysts said .

The return of the tax dispute has forced Vodafone to put on hold plans for an initial public offering of part of its Indian business , which Marten Pieters , chief executive of Vodafone India , yesterday confirmed was now unlikely to happen in the next 12 months .

Additional reporting by James Crabtree in Mumbai

See Lex
