GSK in push to replace takeover target 's board

GlaxoSmithKline has begun a process to try to replace the entire board of Human Genome Sciences , adding pressure to the unsolicited $ 2.6bn bid it made for the US biotech company in April , according to people familiar with situation .

GSK has contacted pharmaceutical executives , finance and governance experts who could potentially take over HGS 's 12-member board as independent directors through a consent solicitation process , these people said .

HGS 's corporate bylaws allow its shareholders to trigger a change of board control without calling a meeting , an situation GSK signalled it might take advantage of in a regulatory filing this month .

Once it has its proposed directors in place , the UK-listed pharmaceutical company would file its plan with regulators and send consent solicitation letters to HGS 's shareholders , who would then decide whether or not to send a request for change .

But people familiar with consent solicitations said the process was a tactic designed to pressure HGS into a deal , and that a replacement of the board was not necessarily the most likely outcome .

Instead , HGS shareholders are likely to pressure their board to engage in more serious discussions with GSK . 
The shareholders may ask GSK for a slight increase in the offer price of $ 13 per share .

Ten institutional shareholders together own more than 75 per cent of HGS 's stock , and pressure from a large enough block of them could trigger a deal . 
Some investors have already demonstrated their frustration with HGS , this month suing the company for adopting a poison pill .

GSK launched its bid earlier this year , but HGS rejected it and said it was beginning a strategic review . 
GSK already has tight links with the US biotech group , with which it is jointly commercialising Benlysta , and a partnership involving other leading experimental drugs .

GSK 's tender offer expires on June 7 , but people close to the situation said that date would probably be extended as it pursued the consent solicitation process .

HGS has said other parties are interested , but analysts see bids as unlikely given the ties with GSK .

HGS stepped up its defence yesterday by accusing GSK of attempting to " disrupt " its strategic review .

GSK refused to comment . 
Its plans to replace the HGS board were first reported by Reuters .
