Corixa purchase proposal boosts GSK PHARMACEUTICALS

Shares in GlaxoSmithKline rose yesterday after it agreed to buy Corixa , a US biotechnology company , for Dollars 300m ( Pounds 159m ) in cash , which gives the UK-based pharmaceuticals group access to a key ingredient used in its vaccines .
Shareholders in Corixa , which develops products that regulate the immune system , will receive Dollars 4.40 a share from GSK , a premium of almost 48 per cent compared with the share price before the announcement .
GSK already owns about 8 per cent of Corixa and said a further 11 per cent of shareholders had agreed to vote in favour of the proposed deal . 
The transaction is subject to shareholder approval and regulatory clearance , but is expected to be closed in the third quarter of this year .
GSK said the move was of strategic importance to its vaccines division . 
Buying Corixa will give GSK monophosphoryl lipid A , a novel adjuvant - an ingredient that is added to a drug to increase its effect .
MPL is already contained in many of the vaccines in the UK drugmaker 's pipeline , including Cervarix , a potential blockbuster vaccine that targets the human papillomavirus , a common sexually-transmitted disease linked to cervical cancer .
GSK yesterday unveiled fresh clinical trial data on Cervarix , which said it provides wide protection against several different strains of the virus .
Cervarix is expected to reach the market in 2006 , although Merck of the US has a rival vaccine in development .
The proposed Corixa deal would mean GSK would no longer incur MPL-related royalties on future sales of Cervarix or other vaccines containing the ingredient .
GSK said it would acquire all assets related to a preventative tuberculosis vaccine and a portfolio of cancer vaccines being developed by GSK Biologicals that contained antigens discovered by Corixa after the two companies began a collaboration in 1998 . 
GSK shares rallied last week after the company 's first-quarter results . 
It announced a settlement with US regulators over drug manufacturing problems at its Puerto Rico plant that had led to a halt in distribution of Paxil CR , an antidepressant , and Avandament , a diabetes drug .
The shares , which have outperformed the sector by 12 per cent over the past year , rose 28p to Pounds 13.40 .
