BHP sets deadline for WMC bid NEWS DIGEST

BHP Billiton yesterday ratcheted up the pressure on WMC shareholders to accept its ADollars 9.2bn ( Dollars 7bn ) agreed offer for the Australian mining group , saying its bid would close on June 3 .

The move led to heavy selling in WMC shares , causing them to fall below the offer price for the first time since the bid was launched in March .

The shares had been bought up in recent weeks by hedge funds hoping for a higher offer either from BHP or for a rival bid from Rio Tinto , as has been persistently rumoured .

" WMC shareholders now need to make a decision , " said Chip Goodyear , BHP 's chief executive . 
" It is not in the interests of BHP Billiton or WMC shareholders to further extend the offer . "

The Melbourne-based group also said its bid for WMC , one of the world 's biggest nickel and copper miners , would become unconditional if it secured 50 per cent by June 3 , a move that , under Australian regulations , would automatically lead to an extension of the offer for a further two weeks .

Although the Anglo-Australian group , the world 's biggest diversified mining house , won a recommendation for its bid from the WMC board , as of yesterday morning it had secured just 4.5 per cent , on top of the 4.3 per cent exposure it already held through derivatives .

WMC also urged shareholders to accept the offer , which topped a rival bid from Xstrata , the Swiss group , by ADollars 1bn .

" In the 11 weeks since the receipt of BHP Billiton 's offer , your board has not had any other approaches , " it said .

Since the bid was unveiled , falling commodity prices and concerns about slowing Chinese growth have caused a sharp drop in the share prices of many resources groups , increasing the offer 's attractiveness .

Even before the recent corrections , many analysts felt BHP was paying a full price for WMC , whose shares were trading at just over ADollars 5 before it was put in play last October by an approach from Xstrata .

WMC shares closed down 7 cents at ADollars 7.83 , against the offer price of ADollars 7.85 . 
Virginia Marsh , Sydney
