HSBC delivers 25 % rise in profits

Investment banking revenues expand

Chief unfazed by election results


The euro could survive an exit by Greece , HSBC predicted yesterday , as it announced that first-quarter underlying profit had risen 25 per cent year on year to $ 6.78bn .

Stuart Gulliver , the bank 's chief executive , said Greece 's future within the European single currency would be a matter for its politicians following the electoral success of parties opposed to austerity measures at the weekend .

" If hypothetically Greece was to leave the eurozone , I do n't think that results in the rest of the eurozone breaking up , " Mr Gulliver said , adding that HSBC 's exposure to Greece was small .

He also played down the victory of François Hollande , the socialist , in the French presidential election . 
HSBC has a significant presence in France .

" We remain quite sanguine . . . 
I do n't see it today as a significant worry , " Mr Gulliver said .

He added that the UK was right to continue to focus on austerity measures , arguing that financial markets had rewarded it for its attempt to curb spending .

HSBC said the rise in underlying profit reflected increased revenues in its investment banking and commercial banking arms .

Finance director Iain Mackay said the bank would continue to pursue growth in the UK mortgage market - in line with Royal Bank of Scotland but in contrast to Lloyds and Santander UK , which have pledged to cut their market share . 
HSBC now has a 5.8 per cent share of the market , compared with 5.3 per cent a year ago .

The group 's statutory pre-tax profit , which included a $ 2.64bn accounting loss related to fluctuations in the value of its issued debt , was $ 4.32bn for the first three months of the year , down from $ 4.91bn in the first quarter of 2011 .

Impairment charges - money set aside against soured loans - were broadly flat year on year , at $ 2.37bn . 
However , recent signs of a blip in the growth trend in Brazil pushed up loan losses there by about $ 250m . 
Mr Gulliver pledged that Brazil " wo n't become another Household " - a reference to the troubled US consumer finance arm that has dragged down HSBC 's performance since 2007 .

HSBC absorbed a $ 468m charge for compensating customers who had been mis-sold payment protection insurance , a form of loan cover that had been a big earner for UK banks . 
It had already made $ 717m of PPI provisions in 2011 .

Mr Gulliver added to criticism by Lloyds Banking Group of the claims management companies that pursue PPI compensation on behalf of individuals . 
He said it would be helpful if they faced a charge if they were found to have put forward a specious claim .

Shares in HSBC closed down 6.5p at 548.6p .
