Goldman says time is ripe for Vodafone to quit US venture
LONDON
Vodafone Group outperformed a falling London market on Tuesday amid renewed speculation that the group could sell its US joint venture .
Verizon Wireless , in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake , is widely expected to resume paying dividends in 2012 to break the stalemate between its parent companies .
But Goldman Sachs analysts argued that co-owner Verizon may yet be able to fund a pound(s)63bn deal to take full control of the venture .
The " environment is ripe for a deal that could make both sides happy , " Goldman 's team told clients .
Verizon can buy out Vodafone using " a leveraged buyout-like structure , " Goldman argued .
This would see the US group pay for part of Vodafone 's stake using debt borrowed against Wireless 's assets , then use the cash generated by the business to purchase the remainder on pre-agreed terms .
Taking such a route would mean Verizon could take full control of Wireless inside four years without over-stretching its own balance sheet , Goldman said .
Spreading out the payments would also limit Vodafone 's tax liability , it added .
Vodafone , which has results and a strategy update next month , rose by 0.9 per cent to 167 1/2 p.
The wider market stalled , with the FTSE 100 down 44.68 , or 0.8 per cent , to 5,707.3.
Cairn Energy was the sharpest faller after the third and final well in its 2010 Greenland drilling programme failed to find oil .
Merrill Lynch , cutting Cairn to " neutral , " said that it was too early to write Greenland off but saw the shares rangebound before drilling starts again next year .
The shares dropped 7.2 per cent to 382 1/2 p.
Arm Holdings was 5.9 per cent weaker at 366 1/4 p after mixed quarterly earnings , with the chip designer beating expectations on sales but also reporting higher than forecast operating costs .
With the shares already valued at more than 40 times forward earnings , the lack of upgrades was punished .
Life insurers were lower after Merrill Lynch downgraded several stocks in a sector review that advised clients to take profits .
It moved to " neutral " ratings on Old Mutual , down 2.5 per cent to 131p , Legal & General , 1.3 per cent weaker at 101 1/2 p , and Standard Life , off 0.3 per cent to 226 1/4 p.
WPP lost 1.7 per cent to 732p after UBS cut the stock from its " buy " list on valuation grounds .
Third-quarter results due on Friday will be strong but guidance on organic growth next year " could , at least initially , be well below the circa 4 per cent forecast by the consensus " , UBS said .
In spite of a bid rumour doing the rounds , Unilever lost 2.4 per cent to pound(s)18.12.
Jefferies moved to " hold " in a preview of the group 's results next week , which voiced concerns about rising input costs and limited pricing power .
Among the gainers , Carnival jumped 4.3 per cent to pound(s)27.68 after closest peer Royal Caribbean Cruises raised its earnings guidance for 2010 and 2011 .
Dixons Retail Group put on 5.4 per cent to 28 1/2 p , a move dealers said likely reflected a hedge fund covering a short position .
Pace , the set-top box maker , was up 5.9 per cent to 213 1/2 p on hopes that a trading statement due today will help ease recent concerns about increased competition .
Fidessa dropped 8 per cent to pound(s)15.84 , erasing Monday 's rally , after a trading update from the financal trading software maker pointed to unchanged market condititions .
Wellstream drifted 0.1 per cent to 740p even after National Oilwell Varco said it was optimistic of completing a takeover .
Varco has been widely rumoured to be among the potential buyers of Wellstream , which earlier this month rejected a 750p bid approach from General Electric .
WS Atkins lost 2.2 per cent to 775p on an RBS downgrade from " buy " to " hold " .
RBS noted that about 40 per cent of the group 's revenues come from UK public sector infrastructure spending , which is likely to be under pressure for several years .
BSS was 5.1 per cent higher to 434 1/4 p after the Office of Fair Trading cleared its acquisition by Travis Perkins .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
