Goodyear to leave BHP Billiton MINING
BHP Billiton , the world 's biggest miner , surprised investors with plans to return Dollars 10bn ( Pounds 5.1bn ) in share buy-backs and search for a new chief executive after the incumbent Chip Goodyear said he plannedto leave at the end ofthe year .
That news overshadowed the half-year earnings results , which were slightly short of analysts forecasts .
Investors were nevertheless pleased with the buy-back and pushed BHP Billiton shares up 54 1/2p to Pounds 10.40.
BHP reported a 41 per cent jump in first-half net profit to Dollars 6.17bn ( Dollars 4.36bn ) on higher metal prices and said China would continue as the main driver of demand for raw materials .
Jason Fairclough , mining analyst at Merrill Lynch , said the first- half earnings were about3 per cent below estimates .
The increase in the mining group 's capital management programme - by more than four times to Dollars 13bn - would be carried out through a series of buy-backs over the next 18 months , beginning with a Dollars 2.5bn off-market return in Australia .
Analysts said the buy-back , which surprised the market in its scale , indicated the company 's confidence in its outlook .
" It is pretty amazing and basically what they are saying is they are confident to generate an awful lot of cash over the next 18 months , and they are happy it give it back to shareholders , " said Mark Daniels , director of equities with Aberdeen Asset Management .
In contrast , Mr Fairclough said : " We believe that declining prices for base metals could put pressure on miners in general and limit upside from the buy-back . "
As with rival Rio Tinto , which last week reported a 25 per cent gain in half-year profit to Dollars 3.59bn , BHP 's base metals division and petroleum unit made a weighty contribution .
BHP , which has 29 projects worth Dollars 17.5bn in construction or at the feasibility stage , increased its first-half dividend 14 per cent to 20 cents .
Mr Goodyear , who in 2005 oversaw the ADollars 9.2bn ( Pounds 3.6bn ) takeover of WMC Resources , the Australian base metals and uranium company , dismissed suggestions the succession at BHP would distract its pursuit of acquisitions and that the company had not been aggressive enough in pursuing growth .
" We do look for opportunities to acquire things , but we look for value and that is the ultimate driver , whether it is organic or mergers and acquisitions , " Mr Goodyear said .
He reaffirmed BHP 's commitment to its oil assets in the Gulf of Mexico . Additional reporting by Kevin Morrison .
