Heat on Vodafone and Telefonica
Britain 's Vodafone and Spain 's Telefonica are under mounting pressure to strengthen their positions in the UK telecoms market after France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom yesterday set out plans to create the country 's leading mobile phone operator .
Analysts voiced fears about the vulnerability of Vodafone 's UK business and Telefonica 's O2 subsidiary after the publication of plans for a joint venture between France Telecom 's Orange UK and Deutsche Telekom 's T-Mobile UK .
If approved by regulators , the merger would create Britain 's largest mobile operator .
Orange UK and T-Mobile UK at present lag behind O2 and Vodafone .
Analysts also raised concerns about the potential for clashes between France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom inside their UK " mobile champion " .
Timotheus Hottges , Deutsche Telekom 's finance director , sought to allay fears that the Franco-German plans were destined to fail .
He said that he and Gervais Pellissier , France Telecom 's finance director , were " paranoid on problems " and had devised mechanisms to resolve any disputes in the joint venture .
France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom are committed to their 50:50 joint venture for three years , after which one could buy the other out .
The German government owns 32 per cent of Deutsche Telekom , and a senior official in Berlin said it was worried France Telecom might try to seize control of the merged entity .
Nick Delfas , analyst at Morgan Stanley , said the merger plans left Vodafone 's UK business in a " relatively poor market share position " .
Vodafone and O2 declined to comment .
France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom want to secure regulatory approval by July .
The merged entity is supposed to be accretive to earnings from 2011 .
Given Orange UK is bigger than T-Mobile UK , France Telecom plans to place pound(s)1.25bn of its debt in the new entity .
T-Mobile UK would go into the joint venture on a debt-free basis .
Citi analysts value Orange UK at pound(s)4.1bn and T-Mobile UK at pound(s)3bn .
France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom closed up 2 per cent .
Lex , Page 16 People and Lombard , Page 18 UK mobile consolidation , Page 19 Video : www.ft.com / ukview
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London and Gerrit Wiesmann in Frankfurt
