Jury out on Tesco blueprint for UK revival
food & drug retailers ; News analysis ; Investors are sceptical about the potential for recovery , writes Andrea Felsted
It was Tesco chief executive Philip Clarke 's second big day of the year .
The first was in January when he delivered the group 's first profit warning in 20 years , wiping pound(s)5bn off its market capitalisation .
Yesterday was the day Mr Clarke set out his plan to improve Tesco 's UK business , which still accounts for two-thirds of the group 's sales and profits , after the worst trading performance for decades .
The announcement did not go as well as he might have hoped .
There was no second profit warning , but Tesco managed to mess up the announcement of its dividend - confusing the total with the final dividend - a lack of professionalism that it is difficult to imagine occurring under former chief executive Sir Terry Leahy .
Investors and analysts remain concerned as to whether the actions set out will be enough to revive Tesco 's performance in the UK , where many customers have fallen out of love with it and rivals are snapping at its heels .
" They are pointing at the right areas .
You have got to be pretty sceptical that it is enough , " said one big shareholder .
Another investor said : " They are again underestimating the scale of the problem and overestimating their abilities . "
Mr Clarke outlined a pound(s)1bn investment plan for the UK business , mainly to be funded from cash flow .
In the UK , trading profit , which excludes profits from property and exceptional items , fell 1 per cent to pound(s)2.48bn in the year to February 25 , compared with the same period a year previously , and sales from stores open at least a year fell 1.2 per cent in the second half compared with the year earlier .
He insisted that Tesco was " not struggling " , despite the decline in profit in the UK .
" We are successful , and we are strong , and my priority has been to safeguard that success by setting us on a course for sustained growth long into the future , " he said .
The group reported total sales up 7.4 per cent to pound(s)72bn , with pre-tax profit up 5.3 per cent to pound(s)3.8bn.
The final dividend was 10.13p , taking the total from 14.46p to 14.76p.
Mr Clarke 's plans include spending pound(s)200m putting more staff in stores and recruiting 8,000 new staff .
Tesco will invest another pound(s)200m to revamp 430 supermarkets this year , in an attempt to make them feel warmer , and to put the " heart and soul back into Tesco " .
Another pound(s)350m will go into cutting prices , although some of this is part of the pound(s)500m investment in prices committed to last autumn .
Some seasoned supermarket watchers were surprised that Mr Clarke had not announced a more aggressive price reduction policy .
Tesco will also cut back the amount of new space it opens in the UK .
While it will continue to open smaller convenience stores , it will limit the number of new stores of more than 50,000 sq ft.
" It 's a fundamental change , " Mr Clarke said .
" We will open the same number of shops as last year , but they will be smaller and more food focused . "
Overall , the amount of new space Tesco opens this year will fall from 2.4m sq ft in 2011-12 to 1.5m sq ft this year .
Instead , it plans to spend pound(s)200m on improving its online operations .
" The important thing is . . . we position this business for a new era , a digital era , " said Mr Clarke .
Tesco has increased the number of non-food product lines it sells via the internet , doubling it to 80,000 lines , and plans to increase it to 200,000 by Christmas .
It will also increase the network of stores from which goods ordered online can be collected , to create what Mr Clarke describes as " the delicious combination of clicks and bricks " .
Tesco also plans to ramp up pressure on Ocado , with more so-called virtual supermarkets to deliver online grocery orders in London , but also into Oxfordshire and the West Midlands .
Mr Clarke insists the strategy is sufficient to reinvigorate Tesco 's UK performance .
He can point to the 1.1 per cent improvement in like-for-like sales from the 200 stores Tesco has revamped so far , as well as the improvement in overall UK like-for-like sales in the final quarter .
These fell 1.6 per cent , a lower rate of decline than the 2.3 per cent fall over Christmas and the new year .
" We think it is enough because we have spent about nine months working out the plan , " he said .
But he declined to put any firm timeframe , or targets on the outcome .
Some investors and analysts were unconvinced by the plans .
Dave McCarthy , analyst at Investec Securities , and a long-term critic of Tesco said : " There are no green shoots of recovery .
Management has planted some seeds .
We do n't know if they will take .
We do n't know if they are the right seeds , or what their potential is . "
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , described the plan as " sensible overall , measured , and reasonably considered .
But the proof of the pudding is in the eating " .
See Lex See Lombard
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
