Luck and oil boost BHP 's balance sheet
News analysis ; If hostile bid for rival had succeeded , the situation might be very different , writes William MacNamara
Investors in mining companies have this year grown accustomed to looking ahead and hoping for the best , as the commodities sell-off has caused profits to evaporate .
But BHP Billiton , the world 's largest miner , pleased investors yesterday by delivering a final dividend of 41 cents a share , giving a total of 82 cents for the year to June 30 .
BHP is looking increasingly able to handle the disastrous market conditions , more so than rivals such as Anglo American or Xstrata , which have suspended their dividends until further notice as they struggle with high debt levels .
The source of BHP 's strength is its balance sheet .
Net debt of $5.59bn compares with $11.3bn at Anglo , for example .
BHP 's relative strength is largely an accident of fortune .
If it had succeeded in its hostile bid for rival Rio Tinto last year , the situation might now be very different .
BHP would be saddled with extraordinarily high debt levels , including the $40bn of Rio 's Alcan-related debt that sent its competitor on a fundraising spree this year .
The benefits of BHP 's size and diversification are also apparent .
Alone among its UK mining peers , BHP has a petroleum division , whose operating profits of $4bn made it the group 's third most valuable division during the year after iron ore , which had operating profits of $6.23bn , and base metals with $4.62bn.
The oil business alone almost offset net impairment charges totalling $4.84bn , including a $2.53bn charge incurred by closing down its Ravensthorpe nickel operation in Australia .
Charles Kernot , analyst at Evolution , said oil was " the key differentiating factor compared to BHP 's competitors , which do not have this positive exposure and , in fact , have negative exposure because of all their equipment requiring oil " .
It was a testament to the worst year in the mining sector 's living memory that BHP 's annual profits , which on a pre-tax basis fell 50 per cent to $11.6bn , were hailed by analysts as a solid , expectation-beating performance .
Group revenue fell 16 per cent to just over $50bn .
In the six months to June 30 , Anglo and Xstrata both recorded pre-tax profits plunging by close to 70 per cent year-on-year .
In that period BHP 's profits of $4.72bn were 67 per cent lower than $14.3bn in the six months to June 2008 .
Earnings per share fell 65 per cent to 58 cents on this basis .
With the strongest balance sheet in the business BHP is rumoured to be chasing acquisitions , especially in potash and oil .
Marius Kloppers , chief executive , confirmed yesterday the company had greater financial flexibility than any of its competitors to pursue " just about any acquisition opportunity " .
But he cautioned that the company already had so much on its hands that it would narrowly pursue " tier-one " targets , meaning those rare assets - like Rio 's iron ore operations in Western Australia - that are high quality , low cost and have a long production life .
Including the $5.8bn that BHP plans to invest in its Pilbara iron ore joint venture in Western Australia with Rio Tinto , Mr Kloppers said the miner had $17bn-worth of capital spending " spoken for " in the next 12 months , underlying the option it has to grow simply by developing its own asset portfolio .
The company 's resilience will be tested in the current six-month period , perhaps more seriously than the half year just completed .
Commodity markets are somewhat encouraging but still hard to read , the company said in a market outlook statement that was widely watched because of the company 's global influence .
The process of re-stocking resources in China appears complete , BHP said .
If that causes commodities demand to taper off , the slack might be picked up by nascent re-stocking process in the US and western Europe .
Mr Kloppers said : " China and India are doing very well , " adding the rest of the world had " stabilised " even if at historically low levels of consumption .
But Mr Kernot warned that , due to BHP 's size and scale , it will have to work very hard to outperform more agile peers .
Credit : By William MacNamara
