Markham set to retire from Unilever FOOD PRODUCERS
Rudy Markham is to retire as chief financial officer at Unilever , continuing a series of high-profile board changes at the Anglo- Dutch consumer goods group that reported disappointing sales figures with its annual results .
Mr Markham , 60 , is to leave at the group 's annual meeting in May , when Michael Treschow , chairman of Swedish companies Ericsson and Electrolux and nicknamed Mike the Knife , will replace Antony Burgmans as chairman .
Unilever also plans to appoint three new non-executive board members to increase diversity : Genevieve Berger , a French professor of biophysics and medical imaging ; Narayana Murthy , co-founder and chairman of India 's Infosys Technologies ; and Hixonia Nyasulu , a non- executive director of South Africa 's Sasol and Anglo Platinum .
Patrick Cescau , Unilever 's chief executive , has expressed frustration at the difficulties involved in changing the culture and behaviour of people at Unilever , many of whom have spent their whole careers with the group .
Investors , however , were pleased to see further management changes .
They have been unhappy with the slow pace of change at Unilever , which has not been able to match the sales growth of competitors such as Reckitt Benckiser and Nestle .
Mr Markham was not popular with shareholders , one of whom said : " Shareholders did not enjoy communicating with him .
He seemed to reflect much that was wrong at Unilever . "
Unilever reported underlying sales growth of 3.8 per cent for the full year .
This was in line with the group 's projected range of 3 to 5 per cent , but lower than the 4 per cent analysts desired .
Annual pre-tax profits rose 7 per cent to Euros 4.8bn ( Pounds 3.2bn ) .
Profit margins were relatively weak at 13.6 per cent for the full year and 10.9 per cent for the fourth quarter .
Mr Cescau said : " To be frank , we 'd hoped to do better . "
Shares in Unilever fell 34p to Pounds 13.89.
The company said a Euros 600m increase in costs of commodities such as soya , rapeseed , sunflower oil and tea hurt profitability from such products as Hellman 's mayonnaise and Lipton Tea .
The rise was indirectly linked to biofuels , which are made from raw materials such as rapeseed and corn .
Further increases in commodity costs are expected this year .
A final dividend of 32.04p ( 30.09p ) is proposed , making a total of 47.66p ( 45.13p ) .
