Misfortunes aside , Tesco chief is no Lemony Snicket
It 's been a series of unfortunate events at Tesco since Sir Terry Leahy left about a year ago .
In January his replacement as chief executive , Phil Clarke , delivered the supermarket chain 's first profit warning in 20 years .
Sales over Christmas and the New Year were unusually bad and Mr Clarke 's Big Price Drop initiative failed to bring in the punters .
Since then , the market has been eagerly awaiting Mr Clarke 's turnround strategy , which he unveiled on Wednesday with Tesco 's results for last year .
The announcement , unfortunately , was botched .
Tesco managed to confuse its dividend numbers and had to issue a correction a few hours later .
It 's difficult to imagine such bungling under the eagle-eyed Sir Terry .
But it was n't just the dividend mix-up that left investors unimpressed .
The rest of Mr Clarke 's grand plan was also met with scepticism .
There was no second profit warning .
But Tesco 's performance in the UK , where it makes two-thirds of its sales , is still sluggish .
And its ill-starred American foray is doing even worse than the UK operations .
Mr Clarke pushed back the date when he expected the Fresh & Easy US business to break even to a year , or even two , from now .
Fresh & Easy is estimated to have lost more than pound(s)700m since its launch in 2007 , and cost pound(s)1bn of investment .
Fortunately , there were signs that Mr Clarke realises he ca n't keep squandering shareholders ' money on wasteful ventures .
In recent years Tesco has allocated about as much to capital expenditure as it has made in operating profit - but without delivering the sales bang to justify the bucks spent .
Mr Clarke now says he will spend less on opening new stores in the UK and the US , and more on revamping existing shops .
Analysts and investors nevertheless reacted with caution to Mr Clarke 's plan .
Not enough money , they fret , is to be spent cutting prices .
And Mr Clarke 's record on spicing up Tesco 's stores is not , so far , terribly convincing .
And he did n't set any timetable for when his plan would show results .
Yesterday credit rating agency Moody 's downgraded Tesco 's credit rating by one notch .
But the gloom over Tesco 's performance since Sir Terry left is exaggerated .
True , the share price has fallen by a fifth since he quit the building - and it rose on average 9.3 per cent a year during his tenure .
But the numbers simply do not support the idea that the supermarket chain is in serious trouble .
Tesco 's pre-tax profit last year rose more than 5 per cent and its operating margin went up as well .
Its revenues increased by more than 7 per cent .
Most importantly , perhaps , for investors , despite recent travails , Tesco 's dividend also went up as well .
The dividend yield on its shares is a tasty 5.1 per cent - whilst the FTSE 100 is only yielding 3.6 per cent .
Tesco will fund most of its turnround plan from the cash it generates - more than pound(s)4bn last year .
Investors should give Mr Clarke 's luck a chance to turn .
