Morrison steals a march on rival Tesco
FOOD & DRUG RETAILERS ; Total third-quarter sales rise 14.9 % ; Chain performing well in London
Wm Morrison cemented its position as the fastest growing of the listed supermarkets with a third-quarter trading update that left rivals in the shade .
The grocery chain recorded like-for-like sales growth of 8.1 per cent , excluding petrol , and announced it would buy 38 stores from the Co-operative Group as it invested in expansion .
The trading update , which beat analysts ' expectations , followed an anaemic performance by Tesco , the UK 's biggest retailer , which this week reported 2 per cent like-for-like sales growth during its third quarter and gambled on winning over cash-strapped customers with its " discount brands " strategy .
Describing Tesco as " the world 's best retailer " , Marc Bolland , chief executive of Morrison , nonetheless noted that he was " enjoying the challenge " .
" Once again we have grown our like-for-like sales well ahead of the market , " he said .
" We are continuing to do particularly well in London , the south and Scotland . . .
We do n't always take customers in from Tesco ; we gain customers from all our major competitors . "
Morrison 's total sales in the 13 weeks to November 2 rose 14.9 per cent , or 9.5 per cent excluding fuel .
Tesco has said that its numbers were dragged down by the decision to introduce cheaper brands , although that strategy would prevail in the medium term .
" We are following carefully what happens at Tesco , " said Mr Bolland .
" Our own price offer is so strong . . . we would not do [ something similar ] now . "
Morrison said that its numbers still contained some inflation but that most of the increase came from new customers and that inflation had peaked .
The UK 's fourth-largest supermarket group , Morrison said it was buying 38 stores from the Co-op for pound(s)223m , plus costs of pound(s)98m .
Along with the acquisition of a distribution centre , Morrison is to spend pound(s)403m .
John Kershaw , analyst at Merrill Lynch , said the transaction showed " Morrison 's ambition but at a price " .
He reckoned the deal , which involves smaller stores than the average Morrisons supermarket , " only just covers its weighted average cost of capital " .
The move is the first big expansion by Morrison since it acquired Safeway in 2004 , a deal that took longer than expected to integrate successfully .
The Co-op deal would be earnings enhancing in the 2010-11 financial year , the company said .
Morrison added it would now curtail its planned share buy-back to finance the pound(s)403m of investments .
Shares in Morrison fell 5 3/4 p to close at 244 3/4 p.
Lex , Page 20
Credit : By Tom Braithwaite and Maggie Urry
