Overseas sales cushion softer UK for Tesco
By ELIZABETH RIGBY and MAGGIE URRY
Tesco said yesterday it was feeling the effects of the consumer slowdown in its home market as Britain 's biggest retail chain failed to match up to sales expectations .
Tesco said conditions had been more difficult over Christmas , but the 3.1 per cent lift in underlying sales - against expectations of 4-4.5 per cent - in the six weeks to January 5 was a credible effort .
" We had a good Christmas , " said Andrew Higginson , finance director of the UK chain .
" We have been affected by the market the same as anyone else , as the market slows .
Most people would give their right arm for these types of numbers . "
Mr Higginson said the overseas business - which stretches from the US to China - offered resilience against a softening in the UK .
He said central Europe , where Christmas is widely celebrated , delivered a 30 per cent sales uplift .
Overall the international business , which now accounts for nearly a quarter of group sales and a fifth of profits , enjoyed sales growth of 26.9 per cent .
The IGD , the food research body , said yesterday that it expected Tesco 's international turnover to increase by Pounds 30bn ( Dollars 59bn ) to Pounds 74bn by 2012 .
But it was the UK performance that captured the market 's attention yesterday as the shares dropped 3 per cent on the disappointing trading figures .
Retail stocks have been some of the worst performers in the FTSE over the past two weeks as a glut of poor trading statements stokes wider concerns about the outlook for 2008 .
Tesco said it still wanted to see a cut in UK interest rates and played down talk of food price inflation , saying that deflation in non-food items had offset any gains in food to keep inflation steady at 1 per cent .
" The consumer is under a lot of pressure .
We think the Bank of England has misread the situation quite a bit over the past year , pushing rates up too fast , " Mr Higginson said .
He congratulated rival Wm Morrison , which looks set next week to be crowned the Christmas winner when it updates on its performance .
He also said the newly opened Fresh & Easy chain of 28 stores in southern California , Las Vegas and Phoenix had seen a " very encouraging " response from shoppers : while the decision by Wal-Mart to open similar style shops in the area was " the sincerest form of flattery " .
