Permit delays hit BHP outlook for oil production
oil & gas
BHP Billiton lowered its outlook for oil production amid continued drilling permit delays in the Gulf of Mexico .
BHP 's total petroleum production fell 4 per cent in the quarter ending March 31 against both the prior quarter and the same period last year .
It was 35.8m equivalent barrels .
" Permitting delays in the Gulf of Mexico continue to impact our petroleum operations , further deferring the drilling of high volume production wells , " said BHP , whose financial year ends in June 2011 .
" We therefore expect production to be lower in the 2012 financial year . "
The lowered outlook for BHP Petroleum , which is trying to drill in deepwater areas of the gulf , follows BP 's disaster a year ago .
The company also said it would spend less money than expected on oil exploration because of the delays facing its deepwater drilling programme .
Copper production for the world 's biggest miner fell 9 per cent quarter on quarter , reflecting a sector-wide stagnation of the copper supply base despite high prices .
The impact of flooding in Queensland , Australia was clear in lower production of coking coal , which fell to 6.7m tonnes from 7.8m in the prior quarter and 8.2m in same period last year .
But the financial impact of marginally lower production in some commodities stands to be offset by high prices .
RBC Capital Markets said it expects quarterly earnings per share for diversified miners to rise 6 per cent against the last quarter and 101 per cent against the same quarter last year .
Freeport McMoran , the US-listed copper producer , on Tuesday set the tone for first-quarter earnings among metals miners .
Freeport 's first-quarter net profits rose from $897m last year to $1.5bn.
The financial gain came despite Freeport producing less copper now than a year ago .
Both BHP and Freeport saw copper production fall by more than 5 per cent in the latest quarter compared with the prior one .
Freeport said on Tuesday it would add a 50 cent supplementary dividend to its 25 cent regular dividend , in the latest indication of the financial windfall it is distributing to shareholders .
BHP appeared to maintain its momentum ahead of a June-end financial year that could be one of its most profitable on record .
The strongest indication came from iron ore , which is its most valuable commodity .
In the three quarters to March it produced 99m tonnes of iron ore , a 6 per cent gain on the same period last time .
Credit : By William MacNamara in London
