Philanthropic project set up to battle ignorance Barclays is putting its money and its staff behind its efforts
When in May the UK government published its long-awaited white paper on the state pension scheme , commentators emerged to debate the relative merits of the changes .
Many of the details , however , will be lost on a large number of people , for whom finance and money management remain difficult to grasp .
With this in mind , Barclays , the UK bank , this month announced the launch of a Pounds 3.6m scheme designed to foster financial literacy and help older people and disadvantaged families make the most of their income .
The scheme , which is part of the bank 's corporate responsibility programme , involves funding to two charities - Help the Aged and NCH , the children 's charity - of Pounds 1.8m each to promote sound financial management and offer debt advice .
In addition , through a large-scale volunteering campaign Barclays hopes that as many as 3,500 staff will work with the charities to provide advice on money management and general training on personal finance .
For Barclays , the scheme is part of broader efforts to promote financial inclusion ( the bank even has a head of financial inclusion ) that make up a large chunk of its corporate responsibility activities .
" We try to orientate our community investment to things that have a good strategic link with banking , " says Alastair Camp , head of corporate responsibility at Barclays .
" And this very much seen in terms of targeted philanthropy . "
In addressing financial inclusion , Barclays is part of a growing number of organisations , in both the public and private sector , working to increase knowledge of finance and economics among ordinary people as personal debt mounts , governments scale back their state benefits and fewer people can rely on their employer to guarantee financial security after they retire .
As part of its Financial Education Project , the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is studying financial education programmes in member countries and selected non-member countries .
The idea is that by analysing the effectiveness of these progammes , it will develop a method that policymakers can use to improve financial literacy .
In the UK , the government has earmarked Pounds 120m over three years for a Financial Inclusion Fund .
The fund will support initiatives such as the provision of face-to-face money advice , the promotion of services for people who do not normally go to see debt advisers and the stimulation of demand for mainstream financial services .
The government also wants to encourage banks to continue to make it easier for consumers to open a bank account .
Mr Camp sees financial training as a vital tool in such efforts .
" There are a lot of people of all ages whose financial literacy is not necessarily as strong as they would wish and for older people as well it is certainly an issue , " he says .
" A lot of people get confused by the funding of pensions and it 's something they 're more and more worried about . "
Barclays hopes that its scheme can help erode some of this confusion .
When it comes to financial training for older people , Barclay 's volunteers will go to local Help The Aged centres around the country to provide everything from basic awareness raising to broader financial advice as well as information on understanding the chip-and-pin system and other forms banking .
" After these awareness-raising sessions , if it gives rise to an issue where financial advice is required on a one-to-one basis , then with Help The Aged we 'll be volunteering with help to open a bank account or do basic budgeting , " says Mr Camp .
With an average of two projects in each of Barclays ' nine regions , a total of 18 projects will be rolled out across the UK , each of which will employ an adviser and will recruit volunteers to support the service .
At the same time , the bank is providing funding for Senior Line , a free telephone service run by Help The Aged that provides information and advice for older people with problems associated with their benefits and pensions .
Working with NCH , Barclays also aims to help up to 140,000 low- income families , young people and those with mild learning disabilities improve their money management skills and achieving financial stability .
The Barclays programme will run over three years and , during that period , the bank hopes to be able to help about 30,000 people directly through sessions at Help the Aged centres , and another 100,000 through the Senior Line .
" It 's certainly not a quick fix , " says Mr Camp .
" This is an issue that 's going to be around for as long as you can look ahead . "
