Poor performance by Vodafone sees Footsie end winning streak LONDON
The rally that propelled the FTSE 100 to its highest level since mid-March faltered yesterday , largely due to a slide in Vodafone .
The world 's largest mobile network operator , which makes up almost 8 per cent of the FTSE 100 , suffered its worst one-day performance for 12 months , falling 4.8 per cent to 139 1/2p .
The share slide , which came in spite of a doubling of its dividend and a hefty share buy-back , was prompted by fears that increased competition in the UK and Japan could erode margins .
Cazenove slashed the stock from " outperform " to " in-line " .
However , Stuart Fowler , head of UK equities at Axa Investment Managers , said the stock was just giving back its gains of last week , when the shares gained on strong figures from its UK rivals .
" ( Vodafone ) is still a solid company and in our opinion the shares look undervalued , " he said .
The FTSE 100 slipped 7.3 points , or 0.2 per cent , to 4,982.5 while the mid-cap FTSE 250 rose 14.7 points , or 0.2 per cent , to 7,001.7.
Volumes of 2.8bn were low .
Scottish Power was a leading gainer , rising 6.3 per cent to 469 3/ 4p after the utility combined record profits of more than Pounds 1bn with surprise news of the Dollars 9.4bn sale of PacifiCorp , its US arm .
As well as pledging to return much of the proceeds to investors , some speculated the disposal made it a more attractive bid target .
However , Angelos Anastasiou , analyst at Williams de Broe , said : " Getting rid of PacifiCorp makes it a more focused business but I do not think that necessarily makes Scottish Power a takeover target . "
Elsewhere , mining stocks were boosted by reports in the Australian press that Rio Tinto was running the rule over rival Xstrata .
Rio Tinto rose 1.8 per cent to Pounds 16.32 , Xstrata added 1.7 per cent to 976p and BHP Billiton gained 2.2 per cent to 652p .
Marks and Spencer added 1.6 per cent to 342 1/4p as the retailer confirmed a 19 per cent fall in annual sales , capping an eventful year .
Stuart Rose , chief executive , pledged the benefits of his turnround strategy " would become increasingly apparent " , although not all were convinced .
Iain McDonald , analyst at Numis , said : " We remain pessimistic about prospects for the current year .
M&S will continue to come under pressure from Waitrose 's ongoing expansion plans , Tesco 's relentless march forwards and any recovery at Sainsbury's . "
Elsewhere , relief at largely benign full-year figures helped publisher and radio broadcaster Emap gain 3.9 per cent to 795p .
Northern Rock , the bank , added 1.7 per cent to 763p , buoyed by a bullish research note from Lehman Brothers , which set a price target of 938p .
Among the mid-caps , Easyjet slumped 4 per cent to 238p after higher fuel costs pushed the budget airline to a wider interim loss .
" Fuel price remains a key concern , " said Gert Zonnevald at Panmure Gordon .
" If fuel prices remain at current levels ( or increase further ) , Easyjet 's operating margins will struggle to recover from the currently low levels " .
EMI slipped 1.2 per cent to 238p as investors worried about the music group 's transition into the digital age , particularly in North America .
Panmure Gordon said EMI had a tendency to disappoint and slashed its rating on the stock from " hold " to " sell " and its price target from 250p to 200p .
Office space provider Regus fell 5.4 per cent to 87p ahead of its annual meeting tomorrow .
Regus was one of the stocks rumoured to be caught up in recent heavy forced selling by some major dealers in contracts-for-difference positions .
Its shares have fallen almost 30 per cent over the past month .
It was a good day for flooring specialist Topps TiIes , up 11.5 per cent to 196p , partly on short covering .
A sharp jump in profits and higher like-for-like sales were in stark contrast to March 's profit warning .
Numis upped its price target from 195p to 205p .
SSL rose 0.7 per cent at 265p after the maker of Durex condoms and Scholl footwear returned to profit for the year to the end of March .
Shire Pharmaceuticals gained 0.4 per cent to 565 1/2p after New River , its partner in an experimental treatment to combat attention deficit disorder , noted upbeat trials of the drug .
Paladin Resources rose 2.3 per cent to 178p after the oil and gas explorer bought further assets in the Fiddich field , east of Aberdeen .
