Positive Barclays comment leads banking sector to top of FTSE 100
LONDON
Barclays led banks to the top of the London leaderboard after positive broker comment on the stock helped lift the mood across a beaten-down sector .
Bank of America Merrill Lynch issued a note to its clients predicting the lender could be able to upgrade its earnings forecasts , saying " we think Barclays has turned a corner " .
Michael Helsby and Chris Roberts , analysts , reiterated a " buy " rating on the stock , citing stronger earnings numbers from US banks .
They said the trend left their existing outlook for Barclays Capital , the investment banking arm , looking " pessimistic " and concluded that the first-quarter trading update due out on April 26 , " could refocus investors to the fundamental attractions of Barclays " .
The stock rose 4.6 per cent to 220.6p and , after two sessions of sector losses , there were also gains for its peers , which were left looking like good value .
Royal Bank of Scotland rose 3.8 per cent to 25.2p and Lloyds Banking Group was 4.2 per cent stronger at 31p .
HSBC was 2.4 per cent higher at 554.1p.
The rally was also encouraged by well-received results from a Spanish short-term debt auction , although a sterner test comes tomorrow when Madrid returns to the capital markets for a 10-year denominated debt sale .
Nonetheless , it all helped offer some relief to Man Group , the hedge fund manager , which was able to join the recovery after string of negative broker comment issued ahead of its first-quarter results due on May 1 .
The stock rose 2.3 per cent to 107 1/2 p , its first gain in three sessions .
Overall , the FTSE 100 was 1.8 per cent higher at 5,766.95 , a rise of 100.67 points , supported by a strong start to Wall Street trading .
The recovery in risk appetite was strong enough to bring heavily weighted base metals stocks into the rally .
Chilean copper miner Antofagasta was 5 per cent stronger at pound(s)11.76 , the best single rise of the day .
But two of London 's biggest retailers missed out on the broad-based gains after poorly received trading updates .
They made the heaviest losses of only eight FTSE 100 stocks to register overall falls .
Marks and Spencer said fourth-quarter like-for-like sales fell 0.7 per cent , confounding hopes of a rise of up to 1.6 per cent in the revenue taken at stores open for at least a year .
Jonathan Jackson , head of equities at Killik & Co , called the statement " disappointing " and said it was " likely to lead to a downgrade to consensus forecasts for the full-year " .
He added : " It also highlights that the group has a long way to go in its improvement strategy in the face of a tough UK consumer environment . "
Shares in M&S , one of the most widely held stocks on the FTSE 100 , fell 2.5 per cent to 358.7p , the second-biggest loss on the benchmark index .
Burberry Group was the biggest single faller after its rise in sales for the second half of the year met forecasts but could not extend a strong run in advance of the release of the results .
Shares in the stock , which is a highly active company in emerging Asian markets , fell 5.9 per cent to pound(s)14.92 , trimming its gains for the year to date to 23.2 per cent .
Bethany Hocking , analyst at Investec Securities , said : " The shares reached a new high intraday yesterday , and given the lack of upgrades today could see weakness , but we are happy to remain buyers . "
Back among the gainers , free-to-air commercial broadcaster ITV rose 3.9 per cent to 87p after Exane BNP Paribas lifted its rating on the stock from " neutral " to " outperform " .
Nicolas Didio , analyst , wrote : " The market has factored in the positive news of the downward revision of the ITV Sports rights budget but we now think that ITV should benefit more broadly from the BBC 's cost-cutting plan . "
Exane also upped its price target on the stock by 15 per cent to 108p .
Daily Mail and General Trust was the biggest single faller on the FTSE 250 after the newspaper publisher warned that interim profits looked set to fall year-on-year .
It cited falling revenues at its national titles and rising newsprint costs .
Although it did not change its existing guidance for the full-year , its shares were 4.7 per cent weaker at 423.8p.
Overall , London 's mid-cap index was 1.5 per cent higher at 11,426.39 , a rise of 170.89 points .
Its gains matched the wider patterns which were seen on global markets , led by financial and resource stocks .
Biggest movers , Page 29 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Michael Hunter
