Price deflation takes shine off Unilever
Unilever 's chief executive warned of a protracted global economic recovery and price deflation as the maker of Lipton tea and Sunsilk shampoo reported strong third-quarter results .
Paul Polman has won the confidence of investors and analysts this year by delivering steady sales and volume growth , leading to a 36 per cent rise in Unilever 's share price over the past six months - more than double the rise in the FTSE 100 index .
Yesterday , Mr Polman said his changes , which include turning round underperforming brands and stepping up the pace of innovation , were making a difference as the company beat expectat ions wi th underlying sales growth of 3.4 per cent and volume growth of 3.6 per cent .
James Edwardes Jones , analyst at Execution , said : " Excellent third-quarter results indicate Unilever is doing what it said it would do . "
Analysts were heartened to see that volume and sales growth , which was delivered in all regions , was not achieved by cutbacks in marketing spending .
Unilever increased spending on advertising and promotions by 130 basis points .
However , the shares fell 35p to pound(s)17.94 after the company said it had been reducing prices , particularly on spreads and homecare products .
Mr Polman cautioned further declines in pricing in the fourth quarter would " take a bit of the shine off our organic growth " .
Jim Lawrence , chief financial officer , said underlying prices would rise just 1.5 per cent in the full year ( compared with a 7.2 per cent increase last year ) , with prices falling between 2 and 3 per cent in the fourth quarter .
Mr Polman also warned of sluggish market conditions .
" Employment and consumer confidence are the key drivers of long-term market growth and , unfortunately , unemployment continues to increase in many places and consumer confidence is still low . "
He added that , while he expected consistent growth from Europe and North America , " increasingly the developing and emerging countries will be the engine for our growth " .
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins , Consumer Industries Correspondent
