Prosperous Tesco takes retailing to a new level With sales up 6.6 per cent , Sir Terry Leahy is still seeking business .
Elizabeth Rigby reports
For most British supermarkets , the pursuit of market share has an air of desperation about it .
J Sainsbury is sending its staff on Jamie Oliver taste tests , banning e-mails and internal meetings for part of the week , and launching a new slogan ( Try Something New Today ) .
Asda , like Sainsbury , is cutting prices .
But although owned by Wal-Mart of the US and so not listed in London , it is also complaining to the Financial Services Authority about Goldman Sachs research that barely a single one of its customers will read because it claims Tesco is cheaper .
And Wm Morrison , which is still struggling to absorb its Pounds 3.3bn acquisition of Safeway , is worried about simply getting food on to its shelves as it fights a strike threat from distribution workers .
Yet , soaring prosperously above all this is Tesco .
Yesterday , it reported a near-19 per cent rise in first-half pre-tax profits and a 6.7 per cent rise in underlying sales in the 24 weeks to August 13 , with second-quarter sales up 6.6 per cent .
It is miles ahead of the pack , with a 30.5 per cent share of supermarket spending .
Asda , its nearest competitor , lags with a 16.7 per cent share .
And Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , thinks there is plenty more market to go for .
First , Tesco is adding more space , with 600,000 sq ft opened in the first half , helping Tesco lift total sales 11.1 per cent to Pounds 14.6bn.
" As a rule of thumb , 6 per cent of new space produces sales growth of 3 per cent , " says Sir Terry .
He is also planning to add a further 1.23m sq ft earmarked for the second half .
Second is the story of non-food .
Dodging the 30.5 per cent market share figure , Sir Terry - as usual - points out that Tesco has just a 13.5 per cent market share of total UK retail sales .
Tesco has gone into furniture and digital cameras in recent months .
It is also opening a stand-alone non-food store in Manchester this autumn .
Third , is the retailer 's internet reach .
Tesco thinks there is lots of potential to expand the operation , which lifted sales by 31 per cent to Pounds 401m in the first half .
However , non-food sales make up less than 10 per cent of Tesco.com 's turnover , against 20 per cent in the UK business overall .
Sir Terry says Tesco may invest in building its own supply chain to broaden the range of products - such as clothes - available online .
It could become key to the way in which Tesco brings its full non-food offer to a much wider audience , given that only 12 per cent of the population live within reach of the retailer 's biggest hypermarkets .
But , there are potential clouds on the Tesco horizon .
Sir Terry says he worries about the impact rising oil prices are having on consumer confidence .
Meanwhile , the market-share gains Tesco has made come , in part , from the weakness of its three main rivals .
And those gains could become harder to come by if the other three supermarket groups pull their socks up and start fighting back .
One analyst estimates that between 2 and 3 per cent of Tesco 's underlying sales growth since July 2004 - including petrol where sales have been up more than 8 per cent - has come on the back of competitor weakness , given that Tesco 's typical underlying growth sits in the region of 5 to 6 per cent .
Sir Terry admits that Tesco has been " helped a bit with problems of competitors " , but the defensive chief executive also notes that Sainsbury seems to be ironing out some of its problems with availability .
But whether a revival among the likes of Asda and Sainsbury - Morrison still has a long way to go to put its house in order - can really dent Tesco is questionable given the market lead it now has , coupled with a sizeable land bank , which locks in its growth .
Meanwhile , if Tesco is feeling the effects of cost pressures on a profit of Pounds 908m , it will certainly be taking its toll on Morrison and Sainsbury , with the former heading for a heavy loss this year , while the latter only scraped a profit in the year to May .
" It is a bit like shooting at a tank with a pea shooter , " observes one analyst .
" At least two of the three have to start flying to put a dent into ( Tesco 's ) sales expectations . "
