Ratings cut ends rally by Barclays
BANKS ; Moody 's move signals losses fear ; ' Significant ' further writedowns possible
Barclays ' share price fell and the cost of insuring its debt against default rose yesterday after Moody 's , the rating agency , cut the bank 's credit ratings and raised the prospect of heavy future losses on complex debt securities .
The downgrade ended the rally in Barclays ' shares , which doubled in value last week after its chairman and chief executive took the unusual step of publishing an open letter to shareholders reassuring them about the bank 's 2008 results .
Lowering Barclays ' credit rating by two notches to Aa3 from Aa1 , Moody 's signalled that continued turmoil in financial markets could lead to " significant further writedowns on the bank 's credit market exposures " .
Moody 's noted the bank 's pound(s)10.3bn commercial mortgage portfolio and its pound(s)23bn portfolio of securities , which are insured by monoline credit insurers .
Moody 's said losses on lending to corporations and consumers in the UK were likely to rise because of the economic downturn .
Last month Moody 's cut Royal Bank of Scotland 's ratings by the same amount .
Barclays ' downgrade is a setback in its efforts to persuade investors that it has weathered the credit market storms better than rivals .
Many investors remain sceptical about the valuation of assets on Barclays ' balance sheet , and say it will eventually have to recognise losses that other banks have already absorbed .
In the open letter Marcus Agius , chairman , and John Varley , chief executive , signalled that Barclays had written off pound(s)8bn on complex debt instruments last year but that this was partly offset by hedges and accounting gains from the reduced value of the bank 's debt .
Moody 's lowered its assessment of Barclays ' financial strength from B to C but acknowledged that , after twice raising capital last year , the bank could absorb pound(s)16bn-pound(s)17bn of losses without breaching regulatory capital limits .
" You could see losses of up to this level and , all other things being equal , it would n't have an impact on this rating , " said Elisabeth Rudman , a vice-president and senior credit officer in Moody 's Financial Institutions Group .
Shares in Barclays fell 11.8p , or more than 11 per cent , to close at 94.3p.
The cost of insuring its debt against default rose 14.5 basis points to 187bp , meaning it costs pound(s)187,000 a year to insure pound(s)10m of Barclays bonds over five years .
Moody 's also downgraded Absa , the biggest retail bank in South Africa , 58 per cent owned by Barclays .
Credit : By Peter Thal Larsen in London and Tom Burgis in Johannesburg
