Retail rents offset drop in office space demand as British Land looks to rebuild
An improvement in retail rents offset a fall in demand for office space at British Land in the first half , as the property company that launched a pound(s)740m ( $1.24bn ) rights issue in February insisted it was back in acquisitive mode .
Chris Grigg , chief executive , said yesterday that a fall in the number of retailers facing administration had helped boost net income from its retail portfolio by 2.7 per cent in the six months to September 30 , although a 2.3 per cent decline in office income reduced overall like-for-like rental income growth to 0.7 per cent over the period .
The company , which last year wrote off more than pound(s)3bn from the value of its estate , saw its net asset value slide by 6.5 per cent over the six months .
However , it said NAV had rebounded by 3.1 per cent in the second quarter amid encouraging lettings potential as " a positive shift in investor appetite combined with limited stock " benefited market valuations .
The company , which is operating a portfolio valued at pound(s)8.3bn compared with pound(s)11.6bn a year ago , ended the six months with NAV per share of 372p , down from 398p at the beginning of the interim period .
Mr Grigg said British Land , which last year made disposals as well as tapping shareholders for cash in a bid to pin back net debt to pound(s)4.8bn , was bidding actively for pound(s)500m of properties while another pound(s)2bn remained on its radar .
A pound(s)1bn budget freed in September through the sale of a 50 per cent stake in the Broadgate development in London would be used to target better investment opportunities during the next two years , he said .
" When we see attractive opportunities to put in bids , we will - the highest proportion from the pound(s)500m [ under current bid ] is in retail , and about a quarter in offices , " said Mr Grigg .
But Mr Grigg insisted British Land would " be patient and act in a disciplined manner " as it rebuilt its portfolio .
" The refinancing overhang and the balance sheet exposures of the banks nonetheless remain structural issues , which will weigh on values over the medium term , " he added .
Brokers Evolution said British Land was now " better placed than its peers for buying distressed or mispriced assets " .
Gross rental income for the six months fell from pound(s)283m to pound(s)240m and a sharp contraction in the impact of negative revaluations , down from pound(s)1.2bn to pound(s)188m , saw pre-tax losses pegged back from pound(s)1.33bn to pound(s)113m .
British Land declared a second quarterly dividend of 6.5p , giving a first-half total of 13p ( 15.53p ) .
This was uncovered by losses per share of 13p but backed by pound(s)129m of underlying profits , which generated underlying earnings per share of 15p .
Shares in British Land slipped 13 1/2 p to 490p .
See Lex
Credit : By Michael Kavanagh in London
