Retail banks in focus amid talk of Barclays interest
Wall street
US stocks posted decent gains yesterday as they marked the 10-year anniversary of the Nasdaq 's peak .
However , following a series of rises over previous sessions , markets lacked a positive driver to send them higher .
As the macro and corporate calendars remain light in the short term , US stocks will be driven by technical factors said Nick Kalivas , vice-president of financial research at MF Global .
" The market seems to lack a catalyst near term , " he said .
" Signs of an ongoing economic expansion , still-low inflation , and cheap stock valuation to cash and Treasuries are supportive .
Do n't be surprised by a [ tight ] range the next few days as the market consolidates recent gains . "
The S&P 500 closed up 0.5 per cent at 1,145.61 and the Dow Jones Industrial Average was flat at 10,567.33.
The Nasdaq was 0.8 per cent higher at 2,358.95.
The index is still 52 per cent below its peak 10 years ago .
Retail banks were in focus following reports that Barclays is considering buying a large US retail bank in a push to expand beyond its investment banking franchise .
Speculation among bankers and analysts is that SunTrust , PNC Financial and US Bancorp - all bailed-out retail banks - are potential targets .
SunTrust rose 2.6 per cent to $26.49 while PNC Financial gained 2.2 per cent to $57.40.
US Bancorp was up 1.2 per cent to $24.96.
Citigroup climbed 3.7 per cent to $3.96 on news of a preliminary agreement that Apollo Management would buy Citi Property , the bank 's property investment unit .
Under the deal , Apollo will get about $12.5bn in gross assets and exposure to Europe .
It will also acquire Citi Property 's team of about 60 professionals .
Pharmaceutical stocks were also in the spotlight .
InterMune , a maker of a treatment for a deadly lung disease , jumped 64.8 per cent to $38.39 following a favourable recommendation by a US Food and Drug Administration panel to introduce the drug .
The FDA usually , but not always , follows the recommendations of its panels .
Healthcare company Allergan gained 1.2 per cent to $62.11 on news that its Botox product for reducing facial wrinkles was approved by the FDA to treat muscle spasms in joints .
Facet Biotech jumped 66.6 per cent to $27.01 after Abbott Laboratories , which makes the arthritis drug Humira , agreed to buy the biotech company for $27 per share , valuing the company at about $450m .
" We believe that this acquisition fits well with Abbott 's strategy of building medium-term earnings drivers by doing financially conservative acquisitions , " said Charles Butler , analyst at Barclays Capital in a note to clients .
Shares in Abbott were up 0.4 per cent to $55.03.
Fortune Brands , a diversified consumer products conglomerate that owns the Jim Beam whisky brand amongst others , strengthened 1.2 per cent to $47.03 as it announced the sale of its Cobra golf brand to German sports company Puma .
Terms of the deal were not disclosed .
Fortune said it wants to focus on its two remaining golf brands , Titleist and FootJoy , which make up its " highest-return growth opportunities in golf " .
Equitable Resources lost 5.7 per cent to $44.68 after the company filed an offering to sell 14.4m new shares .
Teen clothing retailer American Eagle Outfitters surged 6.1 per cent to $18.20 after posting sharply better results than analysts had expected , helped by higher sales and its decision to minimise mark downs .
Net income in the fourth-quarter was $59.3m , up 81.3 per cent from the same period a year ago .
The company also forecast higher earnings in the first quarter than analysts were looking for .
Toyota declined 0.4 per cent to $76.36 as US officials investigated a Prius that sped out of control on a Californian freeway earlier this week .
The incident has raised further questions about the safety of its cars , just weeks after the company recalled several million cars worldwide .
Bucyrus International , a maker mining equipment . gained 0.4 per cent to $65.86.
The stock was added to Goldman Sachs ' " conviction buy " list .
Credit : By Masa Serdarevic in New York
