Rise in full-year guidance boosts Vodafone shares
mobile & telecoms ; Group ' resilient ' in downturn , says chief ; Businesses in Spain and Turkey suffer
Vodafone reported deteriorating performances at its Spanish and Turkish businesses yesterday , but investors were cheered as the mobile phone operator raised its profit guidance for the full year .
Sterling 's weakness against other currencies , chiefly the euro , has enabled the UK company to increase its operating profit guidance by pound(s)500m ( $720m ) to a range of pound(s)11.5bn-pound(s)12bn for 2008-09 .
Vodafone has also inc-reased its free cash flow guidance by pound(s)300m to pound(s)5.5bn-pound(s)6bn , and the company 's shares closed up more than 7 per cent at pound(s)137.2.
Vodafone generated revenue of pound(s)10.5bn in the three months to December 31 , up 14.3 per cent , largely because of favourable exchange rate movements .
More than 60 per cent of Vodafone 's revenue is derived from the eurozone .
On an underlying basis , revenue fell 1 per cent in the company 's third quarter , partly because Vodafone is selling fewer mobile phones in the economic downturn .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , reassured investors by outlining progress with his plans to cut costs by pound(s)1bn by 2010-11 .
He said the mobile operator was showing resilience in the downturn , pointing to how some companies in other industry sectors were faring much worse .
" We are in a better place than others but not in a totally immune place , " he said .
Mr Colao , in contrast to his predecessors , is focusing on extracting better performances from Vodafone 's existing businesses rather than seeking more large acquisitions .
Vodafone 's UK , Italian and German businesses recorded improving revenue trends in the third quarter .
However , Vodafone 's Spanish business saw its revenue fall by 5.8 per cent compared with the same period in 2007-08 .
The business is struggling with the recession in Spain , and its customer base has been skewed towards immigrants working in the construction sector , some of whom have lost their jobs .
The picture was even worse at Vodafone 's Turkish business , where revenue fell by 14.5 per cent .
Arun Sarin , Mr Colao 's predecessor , bought the business for $4.6bn in 2005 , but it has run into severe problems linked to its mobile network and sales outlets .
Meanwhile , Vodafone saw slowing growth at some of its other businesses in emerging markets , including Egypt and India .
A price war between Indian mobile operators means Vodafone reported lower revenue growth of 30 per cent in the third quarter .
This compares with 50 per cent in the same period in 2007-08 .
Sterling 's weakness is not just hitting Vodafone 's full-year guidance .
Using exchange rates at January 30 would increase Vodafone 's net debt by pound(s)5.7bn to pound(s)33.5bn , because much of it is not denominated in sterling .
However , Vodafone highlighted how the increase in net debt was more than offset by the rise in value of the company 's international assets .
www.ft.com / lombard
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London
