Rising costs eat into profit at Unilever
Food producers
Unilever shares dipped after the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods conglomerate said underlying sales in the developed world fell in the first quarter .
The company also warned of a sharply higher commodities bill this year and depressed operating margins in the first half .
Unilever , manufacturer of Dove shampoo and Magnum ice cream , said commodity cost inflation this year would equate to 500-550 basis points of turnover , up from the 400bp forecast three months ago .
Offsetting the higher input bill , Unilever has accelerated its cost reductions and expects to save an additional EUR300m ( pound(s)267m ) on top of a stipulated EUR1bn .
However , analysts said this still left a shortfall of EUR100m-EUR150m , at least some of which would need to be recovered through higher pricing .
" To meet even flat margins this year is going to be a challenge , " said Martin Deboo , analyst at Investec .
" There is a big gap to be closed between costs and prices . "
Unilever , which only gave turnover numbers for the first quarter , said : " The markets for our input materials remain volatile . . . leading to further upward pressure on prices .
Price increases are lagging cost increases and [ this ] means we expect the movement in underlying operating margin to be down in the first half before improving in the second half of 2011 . "
Overall , underlying sales rose 4.3 per cent to EUR10.86bn , driven by emerging markets .
In Asia , Africa and central and eastern Europe , which make up two-fifths of revenues , sales lifted 8.9 per cent year on year in the first quarter .
Western European underlying sales fell 2.7 per cent , while prices stayed broadly flat , dragged down by southern Europe and weakness in Germany in savoury and spreads , a sector where overall volumes dropped .
Unilever shares closed down 48p at pound(s)19.42.
* FT Comment
Unilever was lobbed an interesting question on the analysts ' call : could it split itself in two ?
This was not just the old chestnut about separating food from household and personal care , but splitting emerging markets and the developed world .
The two halves have broadly similar revenues , but when it comes to growth , developed markets are a drag .
Yet the latter still throw off decent cash and could comfortably afford to pick up the odd acquisition .
Meanwhile , the emerging markets unit could invest in capacity , ramp up marketing and still see its valuation soar .
For evidence , look at Hindustan Unilever .
The group 's Indian joint venture trades on 28 times this year 's estimated earnings , or double the multiple commanded by Unilever plc .
Credit : By Louise Lucas , Consumer Industries Editor
