Sale of Barclays notes shows life in subordinates
Strong demand for the biggest ever single sale of sterling bank debt yesterday was seen as the latest sign of banks ' ability to tap formerly closed markets as investors appear increasingly comfortable with paper they had until recently shunned .
The pound(s)1.25bn ( $2.bn ) sale of Barclays subordinated notes attracted bids worth more than three times the amount on offer .
The notes were held by the Abu Dhabi-owned International Petroleum Investment Company which also this week sold its pound(s)3.5bn investment in Barclays ' stock for a significant profit .
" This is a sign that the hybrid market is open .
To get such a big sterling book is definitely good news and its clear that you can get deals done for institutions that people are comfortable with , " said Richard Thomson at Henderson Global Investors .
Last week , Rabobank , the Dutch institution , became the first European bank to issue fresh paper this year with a $1.5bn offering .
The Barclays and Rabobank issues are subordinated debt that sit in a grey area between equity and straight debt .
For banks , they count towards key regulatory measures of equity capital while investors have traditionally been attracted by the higher yields they offered .
Investors cautioned that although the two recent deals show fresh appetite for the paper , banks interested in tapping that demand would have to pay heavily .
Rabobank 's paper carried a coupon of 11 per cent while the Barclays note , first issued last November , pays interest of 14 per cent .
Both deals also carry heavy penalties so that if either bank does not repay the paper at the first available date in 10-years ' time , they will face a steep step-up in their interest costs .
Existing subordinated paper , which tends to carry far weaker repayment penalties , is still trading at a significant discount to its face value .
Demand for the Barclays notes came from US and Asian investors as well as traditional sterling buyers .
There had been fears that demand would not actually match the supply .
Credit : By Jennifer Hughes
