Sarin pledges to fight rebellion *Embattled Vodafone chief expects re-election *Investors holding 10 % of shares set to revolt
Arun Sarin yesterday vowed to " march on " as Vodafone 's chief executive after claiming a " silent super majority " of shareholders support the mobile phonecompany 's plans to revive its flagging performance .
Vodafone is braced for investors holding about 10 per cent of its shares to vote against Mr Sarin 's re-election at the company 's annual meeting today , but he insisted he had the right strategy to reverse slowing revenue growth .
Standard Life Investments , one of Vodafone 's top 10 investors , said the stock market had " lost confidence in Sarin 's judgment as a leader of Vodafone " .
Mr Sarin also suffered a setback when Vodafone announced that Bill Morrow , who was appointed head of its European operations in April with a mandate to cut costs and restore growth in its core markets , would depart by the end of the month " for family reasons " .
Mr Sarin , who faces a protest against his re-election fromMorley Fund Management , Hermes Pension Management and Standard Life Investments , said yesterday : " Over the years we have received strong support from the majority of our shareholders , and that is what we expect tomorrow .
And I feel strong support from the board .
" Frankly , this is a time for us to kind of march on . . .
I look forward to working with my team in . . . executing on the strategy we have discussed . "
He added that a " silent super majority of shareholders " were happy with Vodafone 's strategy , which partly focuses on getting customers to make greater use of their mobiles in homes and offices .
Vodafone 's challenges in Europe were underlined yesterday with the publication of better than expected group revenue figures for the first quarter of its 2007 fiscal year .
It reported revenue growth of 9.2 per cent against the first quarter of 2006 .
But year- on-year revenue growth in Europe was 0.5 per cent , compared with 62.2 per cent in emerging markets .
Vodafone added a total of 16.2m customers in the quarter , after acquisitions , taking the total to 186.8m.
It stuck by its guidance of mobile revenue growth of 5-6.5 per cent for 2007 , compared with 9 per cent in 2006 .
It expects its profit margins to be 1 per cent lower in 2007 .
In May Vodafone reported a record pre-tax loss of Pounds 14.9bn for 2006 .
Some of Vodafone 's investors were unnerved by Mr Morrow 's exit , partly because they regarded him as a potential successor to Mr Sarin .
Some investors are also expected to vent their anger at Vodafone 's plans to lower the earnings growth targets that management must hit for share option awards .
