Sarin sees growth for Vodafone in Africa and Asia as he heads for exit
Mobile phone group 's chief to leave in July
Arun Sarin yesterday sought to dispel fears about slowing revenue growth at Vodafone by saying the mobile phone company would make more acquisitions in Africa and Asia .
Mr Sarin 's statement came as he announced that he planned to step down as chief executive in July from the world 's largest mobile operator by revenue , and that Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's deputy chief executive , would succeed him .
Vodafone 's guidance implies revenue growth of 5.6 per cent on a like-for-like basis in 2008-09 , down from 6.6 per cent in 2007-08 .
The slowing growth trajectory from the UK company is due to the increasing maturity of some of its operations in emerging markets , such as those in eastern Europe , plus the likely impact of the economic downturn .
Vodafone lifted overall revenue by 14.1 per cent to L35.5bn in the year to the end of March .
From this , it made a pre-tax profit of L9bn , compared with a loss of L2.4bn in 2006-07 .
Shares in Vodafone closed down almost 2 per cent at 160 1/2p .
Mr Sarin acknowledged the challenges posed by the economic slowdown , saying it could affect Vodafone 's operations in Europe and emerging markets .
But he was confident that Vodafone would do more deals in Africa and Asia .
He brushed aside concerns that the company 's efforts to secure revenue from the mobile internet could be hit by new competitors such as Google and Nokia .
" We will get the Africa stuff done , we will get the Asia stuff done , we will get the internet stuff done , " he said .
Mr Sarin and Mr Colao alluded to more deals to boost Vodafone 's ability to provide internet services on mobiles .
It was Vodafone 's warning of slowing growth and declining profit margins in 2005 that almost cost Mr Sarin his job the following year .
He eventually won over investors to his strategy of buying mobile operations in emerging markets to counter slowing growth in Europe .
Mr Sarin repeated Vodafone 's interest in securing control of Vodacom , South Africa 's largest mobile operator , which it jointly owns with Telkom , the country 's leading fixed-line business .
He played down the prospect of Vodafone swapping its 3 per cent stake in China Mobile , the world 's largest mobile operator by market capitalisation , for a larger holding in another Chinese wireless business .
Editorial Comment , Page 14 Lex , Page 18 Sarin 's success , Page 21 www.ft.com / ukdailyview
Credit : By Andrew Parker
