Sarin ' buys time ' with Pounds 9bn increase in Vodafone pay-out
Leading Vodafone investors last night said Arun Sarin , chief executive , had bought himself more time after unveiling plans to give Pounds 9bn to shareholders on top of the UK mobile operator 's 2006 dividend .
Investors welcomed Vodafone 's 2006 results but said Mr Sarin would be judged on execution of its strategy statement , which deals with the company 's deteriorating financial performance .
Vodafone broke with its mobile-focused past by announcing plans to provide high-speed internet access over landlines under a " Mobile Plus " slogan .
Vodafone reported a record pre-tax loss of Pounds 14.9bn for 2006 , and warned of slowing revenue growth , lower profit margins and reduced free cash flow in 2007 .
But it increased its dividend pay-out ratio from 45 per cent of adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2005 to 60 per cent in 2006 and declared it the target for the future .
Vodafone said it would return a further Pounds 9bn to investors in 2007 after selling its Japan business and increasing its borrowing .
Vodafone saw core profit , based on its preferred measure of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation , increase by 7 per cent to Pounds 11.8bn.
The record pre-tax loss was caused primarily by a Pounds 23.5bn write-down of assets and resulted in a basic loss per share of 27.7p.
Credit rating agencies downgraded Vodafone 's rating after the company said it was increasing borrowing , partly to return Pounds 3bn to shareholders in 2007 alongside Pounds 6bn derived from selling its Japan business .
Vodafone 's shares , which rose to 124p during the day 's trading , closed unchanged at 119 3/4p .
Some big shareholders who strongly criticised Mr Sarin after the company warned of slowing growth last November said the 2006 results might have taken the immediate pressure off him .
" He is buying time for himself , " said a Vodafone top-10 investor .
Standard Life , another top-10 shareholder , said the changes to Vodafone 's balance sheet structure were " appropriate " .
" However , we . . . remain sceptical on Vodafone 's ability to realise its earnings potential . "
Vodafone will start meeting its shareholders next week in preparation for July 's annual meeting .
Standard Life said it would be " considering our voting position very carefully " .
Mr Sarin insisted he was the " right man " to lead Vodafone after announcing plans to deal with slowing growth by cutting costs and offering broadband over landlines in its European markets .
