SEC could delay Barclays share buy-back
By JAMIL ANDERLINI and JANE CROFT
A US regulator could delay the proposed Barclays ' Euros 3.6bn ( Dollars 4.9bn ) share buy-back unveiled yesterday as part of the UK bank 's revised offer for ABN Amro .
The timing depends on approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission , which Barclays hopes to receive this week after its results .
But the SEC could require Barclays to postpone the buy- back until the offer for ABN closes or lapses , which could be October .
The SEC has restrictions on companies buying back shares until an offer has been declared unconditional .
ABN 's supervisory and executive boards are to meet on Friday to discuss the competing offers after dropping a recommendation for the Barclays bid while seeing how its shares performs .
Barclays shares continued to rise yesterday by 3.5p to 738.5p , valuing its offer at about Euros 68.6bn , compared with the Euros 71.1bn offered by the rival consortium led by Royal Bank of Scotland .
Barclays on Monday unveiled strategic investors China Development Bank and Temasek as part of its revised offer .
Some investors will be looking closely at Barclays ' partnership with the Chinese bank and its involvement in controversial projects , such asthe Three Gorges Dam project .
Yesterday UK-based Co-operative Financial Services , which is known for ethical investing policies , said it did not have a problem with the investment although it added : " We would want to ensure levels of corporate and social responsibilities which are the norm in the UK are not compromised in any way . "
In the coming days attention will switch to the rival RBS-led offer for ABN , with greater scrutiny of Belgo-Dutch lender Fortis , seen as the weak link in the RBS-led consortium .
It must have its fundraising approved by shareholders at an EGM on August 6 .
ABN had written to Sir Fred Goodwin , chief executive of RBS , raising concerns about a proposed split of the Netherlands wholesale bank between RBS and Fortis , which would take retail and small business customers .
In a letter seen by the FT , Rijkman Groenink , ABN chief executive , claimed there was a Euros 234m pre-tax profit difference between the consortium 's and ABN 's figures .
ABN said the operations were no longer split in this way and there were challenges in using the old WCS unit as a basis for dividing the business .
In recent days , its concerns are thought to have reduced .
The RBS-led consortium said in a statement : " The consortium shareholder agreement provides a mechanism for reconciling any differences in the assumptions regarding wholesale customer allocation and any resulting value adjustment that may arise . "
