Shoppers ' positive ' on Tesco 's US stores
By TOM BRAITHWAITE and ELIZABETH RIGBY
Tesco 's ambitious attempt to break into the US grocery market with its Fresh & Easy convenience chain appears to be gaining traction with local shoppers , according to independent research seen by the Financial Times .
Interviews with nearly 700 customers outside nine Fresh & Easy stores in Los Angeles , Las Vegas and Phoenix found a strong positive reaction to the chain .
The interviews were carried out by Execution Research , a boutique research house with no corporate relationship with Tesco .
" Fresh & Easy is the new cult retailer , " Execution wrote .
" At the risk of doing the job of Tesco 's public relations department , F&E is already an incredible success story . "
The research comes after speculation by journalists , bloggers and analysts that Tesco 's investment of Pounds 250m-a-year in the venture was failing to hit the mark with locals , resulting in low sales densities and few regular shoppers .
The researchers found that customers who did visit Fresh & Easy liked what they saw .
The chain was rated higher than Trader Joe 's and Whole Foods on freshness of product , and it even managed to beat Wal-Mart on value for money .
Execution said that it expected shopper numbers - the stores they were monitoring had only 20-30 customers through the door every hour - to increase as the brand grew .
Nearly nine in 10 shoppers said they would " highly recommend " the stores to friends and family - the highest recommendation score in 200 brand evaluations undertaken by the team .
What is still unknown is how Fresh & Easy is performing financially .
Tesco will not release detailed sales figures until the business , launched last November , is a bit older .
However , it did reassure analysts in April that sales were above the industry average of Dollars 8.70 a square foot a week .
It needs densities of Dollars 14-Dollars 21 to hit its return targets .
The researchers estimated that sales densities in the stores sampled were running at Dollars 6-Dollars 12 , with some of the best stores already clocking up Dollars 20 .
" We estimate that within five years F&E will make sales of Dollars 12bn , " it said .
However , one US retail consultant said : " If you go by the stores , you see the parking lots are a third full : it 's clear that it 's suffering . "
Tesco will open its 62nd Fresh & Easy store in Manhattan Beach in July .
Tesco taken to court , Page 18 Also the most hated , Page 20
