Slowdown ends Tesco 's run
By ELIZABETH RIGBY and MAGGIE URRY
Tesco disappointed the City yesterday as it uncharacteristically failed to match up to Christmas trading expectations , ending an 18- month run of outperformance for Britain 's biggest retail chain .
Andrew Higginson , finance director , defended the 3.1 per cent rise in UK underlying sales as a good performance and rejected concerns that Britain 's shoppers were falling out of love with their biggest retail chain .
" We have all been affected by the market the same as anyone else as the market slows .
Most people would give their right arm for these types of numbers , " he said .
But the wider sector fell on news that even Tesco was not immune to the slowdown .
Home Retail Group and Kingfisher , which owns B&Q , were two of the top-three fallers in the FTSE as the general retail index fell 5 per cent .
Tesco shares closed 3 per cent lower at 407p .
Mr Higginson congratulated Wm Morrison , which looks set next week to be crowned the Christmas winner when it updates on its performance , saying the Bradford-based chain had been a formidable competitor , albeit from " a low base " .
" Wm Morrison got it right and fair dues to them , " he said , adding that " the rest of us were about the same " .
But underlying sales growth of 3.1 per cent in the six weeks to January 5 was less than the 4.1 per cent of Waitrose in a similar period .
It was also below the 3.7 per cent growth for J . Sainsbury in the 12 weeks to December 29 .
Mr Higginson said a comparison with Sainsbury was unfair since Tesco 's rival 's figure covered a longer period and , for the early part of it , Tesco had seen a 4 per cent sales gain .
He said Sainsbury 's gross margins might have been affected by markdowns - something Justin King , its chief executive , has refuted .
Mr Higginson said the group as a whole had lifted sales 12.8 per cent in the six weeks .
The international business performed better than the UK , with sales over the festive season up 26.9 per cent .
As well as strong growth in Europe and Asia , Tesco said its new chain of 28 stores in southern California , Las Vegas and Phoenix had received a " very encouraging " response from shoppers .
Total UK sales rose 8 per cent , although general merchandise sales were no longer rising at twice the rate of the food business .
Lombard , Page 18 Retail results , Page 20 www.ft.com / ukdailyview
