Smaller rivals could spoil Vodafone 's growth plans
Mobile & telecoms ; Operator hedges bets on long-term growth
Vodafone has admitted that its efforts to secure more money from data-hungry smartphone customers could be harmed if smaller rivals unleash a price war .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , on Thursday acknowledged that smaller European mobile operators may mount " spoilers " to the company 's strategy by offering cheap deals to smartphone customers .
However , he expressed confidence that Vodafone 's new charging model for smartphone customers would succeed over the long term .
Vodafone 's big bet for a new wave of growth is rooted in booming consumer demand for smartphones , led by Apple 's iPhone .
It is planning to charge customers according to how much data they consume and what type of service they require .
Business people needing fast e-mail access at any time of day could pay more than teenagers who are willing to download data only at night .
Mr Colao said the new charging model " will be conducive " to increasing the average amount of revenue secured from its customers each month , so long as they consume more data over time .
Asked about the possibility of smaller rivals unleashing a price war , he told a Morgan Stanley investor conference in Barcelona : " Of course there could be spoilers here and there , but in the long run the economics of data are hard to be spoiled tactically . "
Mr Colao said the two leading mobile operators in a particular market should enjoy economies of scale that give them a competitive advantage over smaller rivals .
Vodafone is among the two leading operators in three of its four core European markets .
In the UK , it is the third-largest operator .
Mr Colao also signalled that Vodafone should obtain a dividend from Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator , in 2012 .
Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , but has not received a dividend since 2005 .
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group and controlling shareholder at Verizon Wireless , has been blocking dividend payments in an apparent attempt to squeeze out Vodafone .
Credit : By Andrew Parker in Barcelona
