Strong Asian and US sales help BASF to raise dividend by almost 30 %
CHEMICALS
BASF surprised investors with a dividend increase of almost 30 per cent after strong sales in Asia and the US more than tripled the chemical maker 's full-year net profits .
The world 's largest chemicals producer by sales on Thursday said it would pay a dividend of EUR2.20 a share - more than analysts had expected - after it had achieved its target to earn a premium on its cost of capital in the past year .
The German group , long known for its steady pay-out increases , shocked investors last year when it cut its dividend and brought a 15-year period of rising or steady dividends to an end .
Jurgen Hambrecht , chief executive , hinted at another dividend rise for this year when he said the group expected to earn a high premium once again on the cost of capital in 2011 .
The outgoing chief executive , who is set to pass the baton in May to Kurt Bock , at present chief financial officer , said the group aimed to slightly increase its sales and to " significantly " lift its income from operations this year .
" BASF has had a very strong start to 2011 , " he said .
But he added a note of caution when he said BASF was " concerned about Libya " and hoped that the situation there would calm down soon .
The chemical maker operates a number of large oilfields with its Wintershall unit in the north African country .
BASF this week said it had halted oil and gas production in Libya , where it used to produce as much as 100,000 barrels of oil a day .
This represents 14 per cent of its exploration and production reserves in 2009 .
In the fourth quarter , BASF sales rose by 25 per cent year on year to EUR16.42bn ( $22.6bn ) , exceeding analysts ' expectations .
Earnings before interest and tax excluding one-offs climbed to EUR1.77bn but fell short of the EUR1.94bn analysts expected in a poll by news agency Reuters .
BASF said its profit had been dented by more than EUR200m that it set aside for a staff incentive programme and by one-off costs for accelerated plant maintenance .
In the full year 2010 , the group 's sales and profits climbed to a record .
BASF has benefited from buoyant demand in Asia and the US in particular , where it was able to pass on rapidly rising raw material costs to its customers .
With its broad range of industrial customers , ranging from carmakers to construction groups , the group is seen as a bellwether for the global economy .
Credit : By Daniel Schafer in Frankfurt
