TalkTalk to offer mobile service with Vodafone
mobile & telecoms ; Contract voice and data tariffs planned
TalkTalk is to launch mobile services later this year after agreeing a deal with Vodafone .
The fixed-line telecoms group has been looking to offer mobile services since it demerged from Carphone Warehouse earlier this year .
It will offer contract mobile voice and data tariffs to existing customers from the autumn .
However , Charles Dunstone , chairman , said TalkTalk would wait unit next year 's l aunch of Project Canvas - the ambitious joint venture to bring online video through internet-connected TV set-top boxes - before offering customers TV services .
Rival UK broadband suppliers Virgin Media , British Sky Broadcasting and BT have invested heavily in recent months on marketing and beefing up content .
Earlier this week Sky announced a deal to offer content from HBO , the US cable business , while BT will begin broadcasting two Sky Sports channels this weekend .
TalkTalk , by contrast , has focused on providing the cheapest service to the market and no bundled TV service .
" It would be insane and impossible for us to create anything substantial in the meantime , " said Mr Dunstone .
He said that much of the year would be spent on an internal reorganisation .
" We 're not feeling we 're suffering by not having it , " he added .
Mr Dunstone pointed to the group 's addition of 34,000 net new broadband customers in the first quarter , which was in line with expectations and took the total customer base to 4.2m.
" The owning of content is getting unbundled itself .
It 's just beginning this year .
We do n't feel we have to be there on day one , " he said .
Project Canvas is run by a consortium including the BBC , ITV , BT , Channel 4 , TalkTalk and Arqiva .
TalkTalk added it was on track to meet guidance for the year to March 2011 , including 6-8 per cent revenue growth and 20 per cent growth in both earnings per share and dividends .
Total revenue for the first quarter rose 31 per cent year-on-year to pound(s)444m .
Average revenue per user was pound(s)23.90 , in line with market expectations .
TalkTalk shares closed down 0.8p at 122.5p.
Credit : By Philip Stafford
