Temasek loses pound(s)500m on Barclays stake sale
Singapore group loses pound(s)500m on investment ; IPIC makes profit from sale of its stake
Temasek , the Singapore state investment company , sold out of its shareholdings in Barclaysthis year , making an estimated pound(s)500m loss on its investment .
Temasek reduced its stake of almost 2 per cent in the UK 's third largest bank over several weeks from the turn of the year , according to people familiar with the sale .
Barclays shares fell as low as 51p in January on fears that it would join the list of UK banks needing a government bail-out .
Since early March , however , they have risen fivefold amid a broader recovery .
They fell 14.5p yesterday to close at 259p .
By contrast , Abu Dhabi-based International Petroleum Investment Company generated a healthy profit from its Barclays investment .
IPIC sold its entire holding of 1.3bn shares on Tuesday , turning a pound(s)3.5bn investment into pound(s)5bn in seven months .
Yesterday , Abu Dhabi also completed its sale of pound(s)1.25bn in reserve capital notes - instruments similar to preference shares - which was about half the stake it bought in November .
Demand was more than three times the amount on offer , signalling growing investor confidence in bank debt .
Temasek first invested in Barclays in mid-2007 when Barclays was pitted against Royal Bank of Scotland in an ultimately unsuccessful bid to buy ABN Amro .
At the time , Temasek purchased 135m shares , or about 1.61 per cent of Barclays .
Last year , Temasek said it would spend up to pound(s)200m when Barclays launched a placing to raise pound(s)4.5bn.
However , it did not disclose how many shares it actually purchased .
It declined to comment on this year 's sale , saying : " It is inappropriate for us to comment on individual share transactions . "
Temasek said last month it had sold its 3.8 per cent stake in Bank of America in the first quarter , bringing an end after little more than a year to an investment that is thought to have lost Temasek at least $2bn .
Last month , Ho Ching , Temasek 's outgoing chief executive , said it would cut its target for investments in developed economies .
Singapore 's finance ministry told parliament in February that the value of Temasek 's portfolio had dropped to S$127bn ( pound(s)54bn ) between April 1 and November 30 .
Additional reporting by Jennifer Hughes in London
Credit : By Jane Croft in London and John Burton in Singapore
