Tesco feels effect of weaker consumer confidence GENERAL RETAILERS
Tesco showed yesterday it was not immune to weakening consumer confidence as the UK 's biggest retailer reported the first slowdown in underlying sales growth for two years .
Andy Higginson , finance director , said the 5.5 per cent rise in underlying sales in the 14 weeks to November 19 - against 6.6 per cent in the previous quarter - was " very strong " when taken against the retailer 's " longer-term historical performance " .
" The consumer is a little bit more cautious .
The food market is steady and there is a little bit more growth , but non-food has been a bit tougher , " he said yesterday .
In September , Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , flagged that sales were going to be " hard to come by " in the UK because of rising fuel overheads and the impact of higher household debt .
Andrew Fowler , analyst at Merrill Lynch , yesterday kept his full- year pre-tax profit forecast unchanged at Pounds 2.16bn , adding : " There must have been some people who thought Sir Terry was just talking Tesco down .
But it looks like he got it right .
Even Tesco is not infallible . "
Tesco , which has a 30.2 per cent share of supermarket shopping in the UK , has performed better than the other big three supermarkets .
" That 5.5 per cent rise ( in underlying sales ) is twice the size of Sainsbury 's ( growth ) , " said Mr Fowler .
Overall sales in the UK rose 11.6 per cent , against 10.9 in the previous quarter .
Mr Higginson said 3.7 per cent of that growth came from new stores .
Price deflation was 1.6 per cent as Tesco kept cutting prices .
Growth in non-food sales was below the 13 per cent reported in the last quarter but still in double-digits .
Non-food accounted for half of all new space in the UK .
Tesco , which has been expanding its non-food offer aggressively , said sales of non-food product accounted for about 6.5 per cent of group sales .
Mr Higginson also said Tesco planned to open four more non-food Tesco stores and was " sensibly cautious but confident " about Christmas .
He also said the international business was " slightly ahead " of expectations , with sales up 16 per cent at constant exchange rates .
The shares fell 3 3/4p to 309p .
Tesco also said it was relaxed about the fact that the Office of Fair Trading was considering whether to refer the grocery market to the Competition Commission .
Mr Higginson said he was confident any further investigation would find that the industry and Tesco was competitive and worked in the interests of consumers .
Tesco will report its Christmas trading on December 17 .
