Tesco victorious in drawn-out fight for Dobbies
By TOM BRAITHWAITE and MAGGIE URRY
The protracted battle between Britain 's biggest supermarket and Scotland 's richest man looked to have finally gone the way of Tesco after Sir Tom Hunter agreed to sell his stake in Dobbies Garden Centres .
Almost a year after Tesco revealed a surprising Pounds 155.6m acquisition attempt , the supermarket group appeared to have its green fingers on the keys of Dobbies , having fought Sir Tom , the retail and property entrepreneur , on the stock market and via the courts .
Tesco yesterday announced Sir Tom 's West Coast Capital private equity firm had agreed to accept Pounds 12 a share for its 29.2 per cent stake , giving Tesco 94.7 per cent and allowing it to delist Dobbies .
Sir Tom - who controls Wyevale , the UK 's biggest garden centre chain - had accused Dobbies ' board of " rolling over " for Tesco 's initial bid last year and subsequently attempted to frustrate the acquisition , resorting to court last week in an unsuccessful bid to block an equity issue that could have diluted his holding .
After that route failed , West Coast was left to choose between stumping up Pounds 44m for the equity issue , taking the legal action elsewhere , attempting to buy-out Tesco or bowing out of a 12-month tussle .
All options were explored but , with Tesco unwilling to sell to West Coast , the entrepreneur accepted Pounds 36.3m , or Pounds 12 a share - less than Tesco 's Pounds 15 a share offer price last year and much less than the Pounds 18.45 a share maximum price paid by Sir Tom in the market .
However , since West Coast started buying at as little as 500p a share it is not expected to have incurred a heavy loss on the investment .
Technically , Tesco 's cash offer , which is open to the few hundred small shareholders who have not already sold to the supermarket group , does not yet have a board recommendation , although that should not be too hard to come by .
Tesco said : " The board of directors of Tesco Holding will be seeking a recommendation for the offer from the board of Dobbies . "
Dobbies said it would issue an announcement " including the board 's advice in relation to the takeover offer . . . in due course " .
Three of the five Dobbies ' board members are Tesco employees ; the garden centre chain 's chairman is Lucy Neville-Rolfe , corporate and legal affairs director at Tesco .
After a difficult campaign , Tesco should now succeed in consolidating its first non-food acquisition , which will continue to be run and developed separately under the Dobbies brand name .
Given Sir Tom 's already large gardening centre empire , there is likely to be plenty of opportunity for further clashes in the future .
Shares in Dobbies fell 17 1/2p to Pounds 11.95.
