Tesco pays a heavy price for lessening Leahy 's legacy
Philip Clarke was in buoyant mood yesterday for a chief executive who has just announced the worst full-year pre-tax profit decline in Tesco 's history .
But cutting loose from historic legacies always brings a sense of relief , as many Britons would concur in the aftermath of Margaret Thatcher 's funeral .
The bequest from which Mr Clarke is unburdening himself comes from predecessor Sir Terry Leahy .
First , Mr Clarke squashed for good any expectations of imperialist growth in store numbers , impairing by pound(s)804m the value of sites that will now never be developed .
In consequence , the sale-and-leasebacks that generated pound(s)3bn in profits from the mid-1990s will no longer support earnings .
Second , Mr Clarke confirmed Tesco 's disposal of stale and weary US operation Fresh & Easy for a non-cash cost of pound(s)1bn , though he should have pulled the plug on handover two years ago .
A third Leahy legacy can not be written off .
It is the expectation of steady expansion .
But Mr Clarke has at least attempted to confine this to a range : mid single-digit trading profit growth delivering a return of 12 to 15 per cent on capital , which will be invested at a rate of 3.5 to 4 per cent of sales .
The doctrines handed down from Dear Leader Leahy offer little useful guidance in meeting these targets .
The world has changed since he stood down , with retail demand diffusing by osmosis to the internet .
One response from Mr Clarke is to buy such groovy start-ups as video streaming company Blinkbox .
He hopes the entrepreneurs injected into Tesco through these deals will become " intrapreneurs " , agents of change who will shake up the business from within .
The upfront costs have so far been small .
The cultural implications are bigger .
The outcomes are hard to call .
But as Mr Clarke seeks to put his stamp on Tesco , he should beware of replacing Leahy-era white elephants with follies of his own .
jonathan.guthrie@ft.com
Credit : By Jonathan Guthrie
