Tesco chief wins applause from analysts for turnround efforts
Tesco rallied to its best level since last year 's profit warning yesterday as analysts backed the group to regain investors ' trust .
Improved focus and margin investment have been the first results of chief executive Philip Clarke 's three-year turnround programme , which has put Tesco on a firmer footing , said Shore Capital .
" The hard yards undertaken to date allows for management to perhaps think a little more intently upon a phase of Tesco 's development that is ' free ' rather than operating cash flow orientated , a strategy that may be seen and be more shareholder friendly . "
Credit Suisse also turned positive on Tesco , which rose 1.6 per cent to 378.2p.
Investors may be overlooking Tesco 's two-decade history of " exceptionally strong shareholder returns " because of its struggles to sustain like-for-like sales , " but we think growth remains ingrained in company culture , " Credit Suisse said .
Results next month should emphasise capital discipline and sustainable growth , it said .
The dissenting voice came from Morgan Stanley .
Its team worried about legislation in Korea , Tesco 's largest and likely its most profitable overseas market .
Korea has been implementing a law passed in 2011 that gives local authorities the power to limit opening hours , said Morgan Stanley .
The legislation " is accelerating the secular shift away from hypermarkets and in favour of convenience stores " , it said .
With hypermarkets making up 92 per cent of Tesco 's Korean floorspace , like-for-like sales in the country may have dropped 8 per cent this year , it said .
The wider market stalled at a five-year high , with the FTSE 100 down 4.31 points at 6,427.64.
Vodafone added 22 points to the index with a 6.8 per cent gain to 180p .
The jump came after Bloomberg reported that Vodafone had been in merger talks with Verizon Communications as recently as December , which had stalled over disagreements on leadership and corporate base .
It was now more likely that Verizon would buy at least part of Vodafone 's stake in their Verizon Wireless partnership , with the UK group potentially avoiding capital gains tax by using an accounting method known as a C Reorganisation , Bloomberg said .
Car insurer Admiral bounced 5.3 per cent to pound(s)11.34 after its annual earnings and dividend topped expectations .
A dividend hike from Legal & General also beat forecasts , lifting its stock 2 per cent to 166p .
BSkyB climbed 2.9 per cent to 888.5p after an industry website reported that News Corp was " to mount another takeover bid " , citing comments from News Corp chief operating officer Chase Carey to a London media conference .
Investors saw little in Mr Carey 's comments to justify the bid hopes .
He said News Corp was interested in maximising the value of its 39 per cent stake in BSkyB but stressed that the company was happy to wait for the right opportunity , which was not imminent .
Imperial Tobacco fell 2.4 per cent to pound(s)23.85 and British American Tobacco was down 1.3 per cent to pound(s)35.19 on fears the UK would make plain packaging compulsory this year .
Having hit a five-year high after results on Tuesday , Regus faded 4.2 per cent to 143.5p.
JPMorgan Cazenove advised taking profits , saying a valuation of 15.7 times 2013 earnings looked fair for a growing but cyclical business .
Petropavlovsk faded 5.1 per cent to 274.5p , with RBC analysts highlighting that the gold miner had the sector 's highest debt gearing .
The Russian group needs gold to stay above $1,400 an ounce to avoid breaching debt covenants , it said .
Salamander Energy rose 3.4 per cent to 211.2p after Jefferies started coverage with " buy " advice and a 300p target .
Biggest Movers , Page 29
Credit : By Bryce Elder
