Tesco puts ad muscle behind US business
general retailers ; Speculation of expansion plans
Tesco has embarked on the first significant advertising campaign for its Fresh & Easy stores as it fights to make a success of its foray into the US .
The media advertising campaign , based on the premise that Fresh & Easy can save customers money by keeping things simple , follows initial leafleting to attract shoppers to the stores in southern California , Nevada and Arizona .
People familiar with the situation said that with about 125 stores , launching a significant campaign now made sense .
Others suggested that Tesco , Britain 's biggest retailer , had chosen to go ahead because of signs of stability in the US economy .
However , the campaign for the US operation , of which former Tesco marketing executive Tim Mason is chief executive , is likely to rekindle speculation that Tesco is gearing up to start expanding the lossmaking US chain again , after its assault on northern California was put on hold .
Tesco has invested in sites in northern California , while it has completed work on the structure of a distribution depot in an industrial park in Stockton that it will use to service new northern California stores when they open .
The supermarket chain is set to face questions on its progress in the US when it reports interim results tomorrow .
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , is forecasting losses from Fresh & Easy of about pound(s)80m ( $127.4m ) in the six months to August 22 .
Tesco will also be under pressure to show that its UK underlying sales performance is catching up with faster growing rivals , as it is lagging behind Asda , J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison in UK like-for-like sales growth .
Investors and analysts will be particularly keen to see how successful a recent revamp of Tesco 's Clubcard loyalty scheme has been .
The market will also look for progress on cutting borrowings .
Net debt ballooned to pound(s)9.6bn at the end of the year to February 28 .
But according to Mr Black , Tesco should " hopefully be able to say that they are through the eye of the storm " .
He forecasts first half pre-tax profit of pound(s)1.57bn.
Investors and analysts will also be keen for an update on Tesco 's aggressive expansion in financial services , after it pledged to offer current accounts and mortgages within the next two years .
Among the other leading UK retailers , J Sainsbury is due to report second-quarter sales on Wednesday , with the consensus of analysts ' forecasts for a 5.5 per cent increase in like-for-like sales , down from 7.8 per cent in the first quarter , amid falling food price inflation .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted in London
