Tesco sees confidence return with rise in sales
Figures up 8 per cent to end of November ; Market share increases for first time since May
Consumer confidence is continuing to recover ahead of the crucial Christmas trading period in spite of impending austerity measures , Tesco has reported .
The country 's biggest retailer by market share said on Tuesday that early Christmas trading was beating its expectations .
" People are not off to the races .
It 's not party time , but people are recovering in confidence , " said Sir Terry Leahy , outgoing chief executive of Tesco .
Tesco said that total sales rose by 8.2 per cent in the 13 weeks to November 27 , driven by improvements both at home and overseas .
UK sales rose 5 per cent excluding fuel but including VAT .
Sales from UK stores open at least a year , excluding fuel but including VAT , rose 1.5 per cent .
Excluding VAT , the increase was about 0.6 per cent , an improvement on the first half , as its beefed-up loyalty scheme and guerrilla tactics in areas of the non-food market paid off .
Laurie McIlwee , finance director , said the performance strengthened throughout the quarter , with UK like-for-like sales up 2.1 per cent , excluding fuel and VAT in the final four weeks .
Food price inflation was 0.7 per cent lower in the third quarter than the second , and volumes were positive , he said .
The comments were echoed by Kantar Worldpanel , the consumer research group , which said that Tesco increased its market share for the first time since May , in the 12 weeks to November 28 .
Jonathan Pritchard , analyst at Oriel Securities , said : " We are seeing the first signs of returning momentum here . "
Although there were some unknowns , such as the impact of food price inflation , rising petrol prices and the hike in VAT , Mr McIlwee said : " I feel we will have a good [ fourth quarter ] .
I expect us to improve upon the third quarter like-for-like [ increase ] of 1.5 per cent , so it will be a good and improving performance in the UK and internationally . "
Sales of Tesco 's Finest range of premium foods were up more than 10 per cent compared with two years ago , while non-food sales were up 3 per cent .
Tesco said the Xbox Kinect video game console was selling particularly well .
" In non-food , their guerrilla tactics are taking the cream off various sectors ' cakes , " Mr Pritchard said .
Tesco has come under fire from some analysts over its accounting treatment of loyalty vouchers , which have increased in number as it has beefed up its Clubcard scheme .
But Mr McIlwee said that if UK sales were reported in accordance with the accounting standard for loyalty schemes , then they would have been 0.2 per cent higher in the third quarter .
Tesco also pledged to raise prices to reflect the increase in VAT from 17.5 per cent to 20 per cent throughout January .
Outside the UK , total international sales rose 15.2 per cent .
Like-for-like sales rose 9.8 per cent in the US , while they were positive across all European markets for the first time in three years .
Tesco shares rose 10p to 430p .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted and Adam Jones
