Tesco chief claims UK sales victory
food & drug retailers
Philip Clarke , chief executive of Tesco , claimed an early victory in his pound(s)1bn battle to turn round Tesco 's UK business after a profit warning a year ago , as he confirmed a reshuffle of his top team .
The retailer said UK sales rose 1.8 per cent year-on-year in the six weeks to January 5 , on a " like-for-like " basis that strips out new store openings , petrol sales and the VAT sales tax .
The increase is 1.4 per cent excluding vouchers .
The gain follows a 0.6 per cent dip in the last reported quarter .
The Christmas trading figures were much better than Tesco 's dire performance over the same six-week period a year earlier , when it posted a like-for-like sales decline of 2.3 per cent in the UK .
That setback prompted the group 's first profit warning in two decades and a subsequent commitment to invest pound(s)1bn in turning round the UK business .
" We were on form this Christmas , " said Mr Clarke .
However , he said there was more work to do to transform the UK business , which still accounts for about two-thirds of sales and profits .
" It 's not just about fixing Christmas , " he said .
" It 's about building a better Tesco .
Christmas is a step along the way . "
Mr Clarke said the recent improvement in the UK was not solely the product of more aggressive money-off promotions in the wake of Tesco 's failure last Christmas to keep pace with rivals ' coupon deals .
" It 's a very broad-based series of improvements , " he said , adding that it reflected increased staffing in stores , overhauls of its fresh meat and poultry section , a relaunch of its clothing range and other initiatives .
He said Tesco had been galvanised to produce a better performance after the shock of the profit warning last year .
" People have been bruised and they felt a bit of failure at Tesco and they are not used to it , " he said .
Tesco also confirmed that Chris Bush , its UK chief operating officer , had been appointed UK managing director , allowing Mr Clarke to step back partly from the hands-on role he had taken in the attempt to re-energise the British business .
Investors and the board have been keen for Mr Clarke to spend more time on strategic issues outside of the UK , including how Tesco extricates itself from the US at the least cost to shareholders .
" I 'm just stepping back a little , not a lot , " he said .
Some analysts suggested that the appointment of Mr Bush put him among the field of eventual successors to Mr Clarke .
Ken Towle , formerly internet retailing director at Tesco , will become chief executive of Tesco 's business in central Europe when Gordon Fryett retires later this year , while Robin Terrell is appointed as multi-channel director .
Tesco said like-for-like sales in Europe fell 3.6 per cent , and 2.1 per cent in the US .
Like-for-like sales in Asia fell 0.2 per cent .
The shares rose 1.8 per cent to 355.4p.
Credit : By Andrea Felsted and Adam Jones
