Tesco beats M&S sales of non-foods FOOD RETAILERS
Tesco is now selling more non-food goods than Marks and Spencer , the high street icon , as the UK 's
largest and most profitable retailer powers ahead in
its clothing , electricals
and homeware ranges , according to research released yesterday .
Verdict Research , the retailing research and consultancy firm , estimates that Tesco sold Pounds 4.6bn of grocers non-food products in 2004 compared with the Pounds 4.4bn sold by M&S . Only Dixons , with its out-of-town Dixons and PC World superstores , had a bigger market share of the grocers ' non-food market with Pounds 5.1bn.
" M&S and Tesco have had strongly contrasting fortunes in recent years , " said Gavin Rothwell , senior retail analyst at Verdict .
" But this latest development means Tesco has overtaken M&S in its key area of competence .
No high street orientated retailer sells more non-food than Tesco . "
Sales of non-food products at big grocers such as Tesco and Asda have increased by nearly 60 per cent in the past five years .
Verdict expects the rapid expansion to continue in the coming months , with grocers ' share of the non-food market set to expand to 12.7 per cent this year against 12.2 per cent in 2004 .
That would take sales to Pounds 14.4bn in 2005 against Pounds 13.5bn last year .
The aggressive targeting of non-food products by supermarket groups is putting increasing pressure on the high street , already struggling with a slowdown in consumer spending coupled with more competitive pricing .
Boots , which last week reported a 11.4 per cent decline in profit before exceptionals to Pounds 481m , is one of the many retailers that has been hit by the march of supermarkets into the health and beauty market .
Richard Baker , chief executive , said Tesco 's market share of toiletries is now on a par with Boots ' at just under 20 per cent .
" ( Our market share ) is down on five years ago .
That is one reason we took action on pricing .
We are going to fight tooth and claw for our market share . "
Citigroup said non-food retailers were going to have a particularly tough time in 2005 against the might of Tesco .
It estimated that , if Tesco takes half of total non-food retail sales growth in 2005 , available market growth for non-food retailers would fall from 4.4 per cent in 2004 to 0.6 per cent this year .
" The maths of ( Tesco 's ) growth is absolutely brutal in a slowdown , " said Citigroup in a note .
" If , as seems to be he case , Tesco is expanding non-food space while broadly maintaining sales growth rates in a slowdown , its impact on the residual non-food market becomes amplified . "
In a move that will put further pressure on the likes of Dixons and Jessops , Tesco announced plans yesterday to break into the digital camera and music markets .
" The rapid expansion into the digital market will support the ambitious plans Tesco has for its non-food growth , " said the retailer yesterday .
" The MP3 market in the UK grew by 400 per cent in 2004 and is expected to double in 2005 , offering substantial opportunities for retailers who embrace it . "
