Tesco 's recovery path to start with sales dip
food & drug retailers ; News analysis ; Chief Philip Clarke 's blueprint for change has not had time to make an impact , writes Andrea Felsted
Tesco 's UK underlying sales are set to fall in the first quarter , despite chief executive Philip Clarke 's recovery plan for the retailer 's domestic business .
In April , Mr Clarke set out a strategic blueprint for Britain 's biggest supermarket chain by market share after its first profit warning in 20 years .
However , City analysts still forecast a decline in sales from Tesco UK stores open at least a year when the retailer reports on June 11 .
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , expects a decline in UK like-for-like sales of 1-2 per cent year on year , excluding fuel and VAT , in the retailer 's first quarter .
With inflation of about 2.5 per cent , the volume of goods sold would be down 3-4 per cent .
Andrew Kasoulis , analyst at Credit Suisse , forecasts a 1.5 per cent decline .
This compares with a 1.6 per cent drop in UK like-for-like sales in the fourth quarter to the end of February , although it is an improvement on the 2.3 per cent decline over Christmas and the new year , Tesco 's worst performance for decades .
Mr Black said the first-quarter performance would be in line with expectations , as Tesco was just starting to implement the changes Mr Clarke talked about in April , such as putting more staff into supermarkets and introducing improved ready meals .
" It 's all about basic stuff , " he said .
" We would not be expecting Tesco to be doing anything other than performing in line with the fourth quarter , slightly underperforming the industry .
I think that is part of the plan . "
Mr Kasoulis pointed out that the first quarter of this year - the 13 weeks to May 26 - would not include the run-in to the late May bank holiday , which boosts food sales , whereas last year it did .
Although this year and last year 's reporting periods include Easter , the first quarter of the 2011-2012 financial year also included the Royal wedding .
On top of that , the weather in April this year was poor .
" While we think there probably has been some underlying sales improvement , aided by the very high level of money-off coupons , we think April was weak [ impacted by the weather ] and the calendar will not unwind until the second quarter , " said Mr Kasoulis in a note .
The lack of obvious progress could raise eyebrows given the aggressive voucher promotions .
Mr Black said the vouchering was " very much about stabilising Tesco - they were losing market share apace and the first thing they had to do was stem the tide . "
Although the figures will make grim reading for Mr Clarke , Mr Black believes investors and analysts will give him more time .
" For Phil Clarke it 's just going to be a case of being stoic and determined .
There is no quick fix , " said Mr Black .
" If we were having this conversation this time next year , he would be under pressure , because a lot of the initiatives that are planned will be in-store and if customers are not biting the cherry at that point , there will be big issues to worry about . "
Shares in Tesco fell to below 300p last week .
Excluding the period after the Lehman Brothers collapse in autumn 2008 , this was Tesco 's lowest share price since October 2005 .
Between that date and May 30 2012 the FTSE 100 rose 2.2 per cent .
Investors and analysts will not just be looking for signs of progress in the UK when Tesco reports its first-quarter performance .
They will also be seeking signs of improvement in the US and an update on Korea , where new rules restricting hypermarket opening hours have been introduced .
In addition , the City will be looking for evidence that Tesco Bank is making progress .
The full transfer from former partner Royal Bank of Scotland 's systems to Tesco 's has now taken place , paving the way for mortgages to be launched .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
