Tesco shares climb on strong UK sales growth
Shares in Tesco climbed to a record high yesterday as sales at the UK 's largest retailer raced ahead in the third quarter , quashing earlier fears of a slowdown in growth .
The supermarket group unveiled a 12.2 per cent rise in sales in the 14 weeks to November 20 , the strongest quarterly performance in five years , as it won market share in a fiercely competitive UK market and pushed harder into eastern Europe and Asia .
Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , warned in September that the second half would see slower growth .
But like-for-like sales at Tesco 's core UK business accelerated 9.8 per cent in the third quarter , rising from 8.8 per cent in the second quarter and 7.8 per cent in the first three months .
Tesco , which now pockets Pounds 1 of every Pounds 8 spent in the UK retail market , saw total UK sales growth of 12.3 per cent .
Average industry growth in the 12 weeks to November 7 was 3 per cent , according to TNS , the market information group .
" These are stunningly good results , " said Richard Ratner , an analyst at Seymour Pierce , who inched up his full-year pre-tax profit forecast from Pounds 2.01bn to Pounds 2.02bn.
The strong performance will again turn the spotlight on other supermarket groups , such as Wm Morrison and J . Sainsbury , which have been struggling to keep pace with Tesco .
Iain McDonald at Numis Securities said Tesco 's success stemmed from its ability to leverage scale .
" It is in a virtuous circle .
Because it is so big it can buy big and get good prices , which it then feeds back into lower prices for customers , " he said .
Tesco , which has been cutting prices by an average of Pounds 5m per week , said its new " value " electricals range had proved extremely popular .
Petrol volumes grew strongly as Tesco battled to keep fuel prices down in spite of soaring oil prices .
Excluding petrol sales , like- for-like UK growth was 7.5 per cent .
But sales at Tesco 's international operations , which account for more than half of total floor space and about a fifth of sales , came in slightly below some analysts ' forecasts .
Turnover grew 11.9 per cent , or 18.2 per cent stripping out currency effects .
Excluding Japan , where Tesco made a second acquisition earlier this year , international sales were " broadly similar to the first half " .
Tesco has 471 stores in Europe and Asia .
The group 's shares , which have increased 27 per cent in the past 12 months , rose 4.4 per cent to 311p yesterday .
Lex , Page 20
