Tesco maintains appetite for US despite setback
food & drug retailers ; News analysis ; As some stores are mothballed , group is predicting better times , writes Andrea Felsted
Sir Terry Leahy presided over his final set of results as chief executive of Tesco on Tuesday and , at first glance , it looked as if the most successful retailer of his generation was bowing out on a high .
At a group level , sales and profits in the six months to the end of August were all heading in the right direction , driven by a recovery in many of Tesco 's international markets in central Europe and in Asia .
Indeed , Sir Terry was able to reveal a 12.5 per cent increase in first-half pre-tax profit to pound(s)1.6bn , on sales excluding VAT up 7.1 per cent to pound(s)29.8bn , as economies recovered in Asia and Europe .
Underlying profit , which excludes exceptional items and goodwill amortisation , rose 14.1 per cent to pound(s)1.79bn.
Earnings per share jumped 14 per cent from 12.93p to 14.72p , and the interim dividend is lifted 12.3 per cent to 4.37p.
Sir Terry , who retires in March , was also able to announce a fall in net debt , which has worried some analysts , from pound(s)9.5bn a year ago to pound(s)7.6bn , with net borrowings expected to fall to pound(s)7bn at the year end .
He said : " The headwinds of global recession [ have ] become the tailwinds of recovery .
We are delivering improving sales and momentum from our international business . "
But scratch a little deeper and the performance was less polished .
Tesco surprised the market with the revelation that it was mothballing 13 US stores .
One analyst said this was highly unusual , although Sir Terry said it was not unprecedented .
Phil Clarke , who takes over as chief executive from Sir Terry in March , said Tesco had been forced to close the stores because populations had dwindled in parts of the western US hit by the housing market downturn .
" Whenever you plan to open stores , you work on the basis that there are going to be people living nearby , " he said .
Tesco will try to sublet the mothballed stores - six in Arizona , six in Nevada and one in inland California - while staff and shopfittings will be redeployed .
Its projections assume that it will open them again in the next four to five years .
Losses at Fresh & Easy , which will have about 165 stores after the mothballing , increased from pound(s)85m to pound(s)95m in the first half , reflecting the cost of acquiring the operations of two suppliers .
Sir Terry denied that closing the stores was a blow to his American dream .
In fact , he announced a step up in the store opening programme in the more established population centres .
Tesco currently opens one store every two weeks .
This will move to one a week towards the end of this year , before increasing to two a week .
In 2011 , it will also move into northern California .
It is aiming to have about 400 stores by 2012-13 , at which point Tesco forecasts the chain will break even .
This is two years earlier than Clive Black , of Shore Capital and one of the most upbeat analysts on Tesco , had been expecting .
" This is a pleasant and important surprise , " he said .
But Mike Dennis , analyst at MF Global , said the US expansion plan looked ambitious , given the rate of openings so far .
" The US is still a big issue , " he said .
But the US is not the only area to trouble some Tesco-watchers .
In the UK , sales from stores open at least a year , excluding VAT and petrol , rose 0.3 per cent in the first half .
This was made up of 0.1 per cent growth in the first quarter and 0.4 per cent growth in the second .
Mr Dennis estimates that if sales paid for by Clubcard vouchers were excluded , first-half UK like-for-like sales would have fallen 0.1 per cent .
He forecasts that rival J Sainsbury will on Wednesday report first-half UK like-for-like sales growth of 1.6 per cent .
Sir Terry said this comparison was " not really a concern " for Tesco .
" We have continued to outperform the industry , " he insisted .
He said the first quarter had been particularly tough because of moderating food price inflation and an increase in petrol prices , which ate into the household budget .
" We will see things pick up a little bit in the autumn , " he said .
" It 's as if people are having to cap the cash amount they spend because of the extra petrol costs , but what they are buying says they are in the mood to spend a bit more money . "
The roll-out of Tesco 's first banking product is also imminent , as Sir Terry begins his assault to become the " people 's bank " .
The success of the move will be crucial to the group 's growth ambitions in its home market .
Meanwhile , Tesco and its rivals are adding new supermarkets apace , at the same time as the outlook for consumers becomes more uncertain .
Britain faces a raft of austerity measures as the government seeks to bring down Britain 's borrowing burden .
But Tesco shrugged off the impact , a stance that surprised some analysts .
" They are necessary measures and our business will grow well through it , " said Laurie McIlwee , finance director .
With Tesco also facing the biggest management transition in 14 years , investors will be hoping its confidence in the business proves right .
Standing down
Sir Terry Leahy , who presented his last set of results as chief executive of Tesco , was silent about his plans when he steps down in March from the role he has held for the past 14 years , writes Andrea Felsted .
He refused to say what approaches he had received .
However , he said he had no plans to become a non-executive director of a FTSE 100 company , pointing out that he held no such positions at the moment .
" I would not enjoy it , " he said of such a role .
He will also not work as a consultant for Tesco , but he says he will remain the group 's " biggest fan " .
He has been suggested as a potential candidate for the role of chairman of the BBC Trust , the sovereign body of the BBC .
Sir Terry said that he would consider the role if he were asked , but that he did not expect to be approached .
He will still be involved in business but this is likely to be in the private arena , potentially as a " business angel " , investing in and advising small companies .
He will also continue with charity work .
On the brink of retirement , he launched a strong defence of final salary pension schemes , which Tesco still operates , albeit with benefits based on career-average salaries .
" It 's a great savings vehicle for the future , and I think people will look back and say it was a great error to allow so many of these schemes to go by the wayside . "
www.ft.com / insidetesco
Credit : By Andrea Felsted and John O'Doherty
