Tesco suffers hangover from Christmas
Profit warning
Tesco shares plunged yesterday after the UK retailer issued a profit warning in the wake of disappointing Christmas trading in its UK heartland .
In a shift that could signal a turning point in the evolution of the UK retail sector , it also said it was planning to open fewer hypermarkets in the UK and put greater emphasis on online sales .
Tesco 's shares , which had been steadily falling ahead of the trading update , slumped nearly 16 per cent to 323 1/2 p in London , wiping as much as pound(s)4.9bn from its market capitalisation .
Shares in other UK grocers also fell amid more general nervousness about the sector 's prospects .
Philip Clarke , Tesco 's chief executive , said the company had been outgunned by rivals ' promotions in the UK over the holiday period .
" We chose in those critical six weeks not to hit customers with a blizzard of coupons but to invest mainly in cutting prices , " he said .
While he argued this was the right focus in the long term , he conceded it had caused Tesco , the UK 's leading retailer by sales , to underperform in the short term : " I have got to acknowledge that we backed off a bit on some of our promotional and couponing activity just as everybody else upped it . "
J Sainsbury , one of Tesco 's main rivals , issued a more robust Christmas trading update on Wednesday , aided by a coupon-based promotion .
Tesco gave only a glimpse of its plan to open fewer very large stores in the UK than planned .
Mr Clarke said its growth ambitions in non-food items could be increasingly satisfied through internet sales rather than building more " big box " stores .
Sales in the six weeks to January 7 were down 2.3 per cent year-on-year in the UK on a like-for-like basis that strips out new store openings , petrol sales and value added tax .
This was weaker than the 0.9 per cent decline posted in the third quarter of its financial year , which ended in November .
Analysts had been expecting a decline of 0.9 per cent over the holiday period , according to a poll by Reuters .
Mr Clarke said : " It is not what I wanted for Christmas . "
The trading statement was a " major disappointment " , according to analysts at Shore Capital .
Tesco said it now expected to deliver " minimal " growth in trading profit and underlying pre-tax profit in its next financial year , compared with the 10 per cent growth anticipated by the market .
The flat outlook reflected the need to invest hundreds of millions of pounds - particularly in the UK - in price cuts , product improvements and better service , it said .
Credit : By Adam Jones
