Tesco buys 36 stores in South Korea for Pounds 1bn
By SONG JUNG-A and ELIZABETH RIGBY
Tesco is breaking its decade-long pursuit of overseas organic growth , with a record cash purchase of a chain of hypermarkets in South Korea .
Britain 's biggest chain is acquiring 36 stores owned by E-Land Group in and round Seoul , where 11m potential Tesco customers live , for just under Pounds 1bn , including the assumption of existing debt .
This deal is the first time Tesco has spent anywhere near this kind of money on an international acquisition .
Until now , it has preferred to grow from the ground up , through joint ventures with local partners and store-by-store growth .
But Phil Clarke , international director of Tesco , stressed that this did not herald a more radical era of expansion for the grocer .
He said : " We prefer organic growth , that is always our priority and will remain so , but these 36 stores give us two and a bit years of growth in one hit .
In four and a half years in this job I have done two deals ( the other one being an asset swap with Carrefour ) .
I do n't see an acceleration of deals at all " .
It does show that Tesco is determined to gain pole position in chosen markets .
Korea is the retailer 's biggest market outside the UK , with Pounds 2.7bn of sales coming from 66 hypermarkets and 72 convenience stores .
That turnover will be closer to Pounds 4bn once the deal goes through .
Tesco said the Korean deal would have a neutral impact on earnings in the second year of ownership and boost earnings beyond that .
About half the price was the assumption of debt .
Tesco will fund the deal from existing facilities .
Mr Clarke tried to buy the stores back in 2006 , when Carrefour , the then-owners , decided to exit Korea , eventually selling the stores to E-Land for Euros 1.5bn( Dollars 2.3bn ) .
JPMorgan said the acquistion gave Tesco a chance to close the gap on Shinsegae 's E-mart , which has sales of Won9,000bn ( Pounds ? ? bn ) , against Tesco 's Won5,900bn .
" Korea is a very interesting market long-term as the sector has become a two-horse race , " it said .
Elsewhere , Mr Clarke is still working on India , and hinted that Tesco could be warming to Russia , a hotspot for rivals Wal-Mart and Carrefour .
" Russia is not never .
You know how long we looked at America .
But we have more than enough to keep us busy in the markets we are in , " he said .
The shares closed 1.7 per cent down .
Lex , Page 18
