Tesco urges ' decisive ' interest rate cut
By ELIZABETH RIGBY and MAGGIE URRY
Tesco yesterday called on the Bank of England to cut interest rates in spite of Britain 's biggest retailer appearing impervious to any difficulties facing the high street as it announced an improvement in sales .
Andrew Higginson , finance director , said while customers were still shopping in the run-up to Christmas , they were becoming more cautious .
" The Bank of England needs to move decisively to take interest rates down , " he said .
However , Mr Higginson - echoing comments made by Stuart Rose , of Marks and Spencer , last month - tried to play down talk of a consumer downturn on the back of the credit squeeze .
" It is hard to make long-term predictions about what will happen in the new year .
It varies from month-to-month .
At the moment we are delivering good numbers .
I do think a lot of the commentary about the market is misinformed ( on our outlook for 2008 ) , " said Mr Higginson .
" Concerns are overblown , " he added .
However , some hint of a slowdown was evident as Mr Higginson said non-food sales were falling back a little as shoppers held back from buying more indulgent purchases beyond their weekly food shop .
Signs of a downturn have yet to show in the headline figures , with underlying UK sales excluding petrol up 4.1 per cent in the 13 weeks to November 24 - ahead of J Sainsbury and Wm Morrison 's latest figures - and group sales up 11.8 per cent .
The performance in the UK was well ahead of the first half when Tesco 's underlying growth slowed to 3.5 per cent on the back of the wet summer .
UK sales overall were up 7.6 per cent .
The update came on the heels of Tesco 's US tour with analysts to show off its new Fresh & Easy chain .
Mr Higginson said the 15 stores on the West Coast had got off to a good start .
" You ca n't fault them for effort , " he said of the executive team in California .
" It is Herculian in that space of time to have built from scratch what they have built . "
Mr Higginson said the discounter model , with high levels of own- brand product , could work in the US where shoppers tend to opt for big brand food items .
" It will be interesting to see how that pans out .
When we did our research we were worried about own-label but what came out was businesses such as Trader Joes , Whole Foods , Costco , all trade own- label strongly . "
International sales across its 12 Asian and European businesses rose 26 per cent .
Tesco will open 7m sq ft of selling space overseas in the current year .
The shares fell 3 1/2p to 484 1/4p .
Lex , Page 24 www.ft.com / ukdailyview
