Tesco stalls in home deliveries survey
Food & Drug Retailers ; Online grocer fares worst out of five ; Customers give Ocado top rating
Tesco may be the UK 's biggest online grocer but it has fared the worst out of all the big chains in a consumer poll rating Britain 's biggest supermarkets for their internet delivery service .
The supermarket was given the poorest rating out of five online supermarkets - Ocado , Waitrose , Tesco , J Sainsbury and Asda - in a Which ? consumer survey that asked 2,200 shoppers to rate the chains out of 100 for accuracy , punctuality , missing or damaged items , and value for money .
Ocado , the internet-only start-up that sells Waitrose food , scored highest with an 82 per cent customer satisfaction rating , while Tesco , which is by far the biggest internet grocer , delivering 320,000 orders a week compared with 100,000 for Sainsbury , had a 58 per cent rating , closely followed by Asda 's 59 per cent .
Nearly half of all the shoppers who had bought groceries online were sent the wrong items , with 45 per cent reporting that at least one item of their last shop was substituted for another product .
One shopper taking part ordered vanilla ice cream but was sent a vanilla air freshener instead .
Tesco said that the survey did not reflect " the reality we experience with customer feedback from some of our 1m regular online shoppers " .
The supermarket said : " They love our unrivalled delivery area , our cheaper alternative suggestions , bagless deliveries , convenient delivery times and efficient service with a 95 per cent time-slot success rate . "
All the biggest food chains , bar Wm Morrison , have been pushing aggressively into online shopping as more consumers switch to the internet in order to buy groceries .
Asda , which was relatively late into the service compared with Tesco and Sainsbury , said this month that it was planning to open a " virtual store " in its Yorkshire heartlands dedicated to fulfilling online orders .
Retailers typically pick internet orders from the aisles of local stores and then pack them into vans for delivery .
But they are now having to open internet-only stores in busy areas to make sure they can meet deliveries .
Tesco opened one such store in Croydon , south London , two years ago .
Credit : By Elizabeth Rigby , Consumer Industries Editor
