Tesco aims to close growth gap
Food & DRUG Retailers ; Group says it is catching UK rivals ; International sales buoy first quarter
Tesco insisted it was narrowing the gap on faster-growing UK rivals Wm Morrison , J Sainsbury and Asda , as international sales buoyed its first-quarter performance .
Revealing a 4.3 per cent increase in first quarter UK like-for-like sales - in line with analysts ' forecasts - Laurie McIlwee , finance director , said Tesco was back on its game and would continue to close in on smaller competitors .
" I would not deny we would want to close the relative performance gap , and it is closing , " he said .
The comments come ahead of first-quarter figures today from Sainsbury , which are expected to reveal a 6.4 per cent increase in like-for-like sales .
Tesco 's performance in its domestic market , which accounts for more than two-thirds of its profit and sales , was boosted by shoppers returning to its premium brands .
Demand for non-food items was also picking up , with " modest " like-for-like sales growth resuming in recent weeks .
Mr McIlwee said shoppers were buying more clothes , electricals and home entertainment products , as well as garden and camping equipment as Britons forfeited foreign holidays .
Group sales for the 13 weeks to May 30 rose 9.7 per cent including petrol , and 12.6 per cent excluding such sales .
The shares closed up 5.5p at 361.6p.
International sales rose 20.1 per cent , or 11.4 per cent at constant exchange rates , boosted by Asian markets , but held back by Ireland where Tesco has been trying to stem the flow of cross-border shoppers seeking bargains in Northern Ireland .
Sales in the US - where Tesco has been forced to slow its expansion plans - almost tripled , although Mr McIlwee acknowledged that the US operation was an " immature and small business " .
Tesco also showed no let up in its push into banking as it attempts to build what Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , described as the " people 's bank " .
Mr McIlwee acknowledged that Tesco was seeing a " slight uptick " in bad debts from its credit card and loan book , although he also said that Tesco 's bad debt performance was better than banking rivals and would not cause the market to change its forecasts of current year profits .
Tesco hopes to launch a current account " in the not too distant future " , possibly in the current year to February 2010 or the next .
However , people familiar with the situation indicated that a current account was most likely to be introduced towards the end of 2010 .
Tesco 's personal finance operation contributed 2.2 percentage points to overall UK sales growth of 9.3 per cent .
" The customer count is increasing steadily , " said Mr McIlwee .
Separately , Tesco plans to issue pound(s)416m of 30-year bonds backed by 12 UK stores and two distribution centres , as part of its sale and leaseback programme .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Retail Correspondent
