Tesco in focus as California looks to alter alcohol sales
Tesco was a talking point in a rising London market on Friday amid renewed speculation it could concede defeat in America .
A proposed change to liquor laws in California , the hub of Tesco 's Fresh and Easy division , could mark " the beginning of the end " for the lossmaking chain , MF Global analysts said .
A bill proposed by California Democrat Fiona Ma would ban sales of alcohol at self-service checkouts .
Tesco has 126 stores in California , accounting for nearly three-quarters of its US portfolio , and was the only grocer in the state to use self-service tills , MF analyst Mike Dennis noted .
Adding the extra staff needed to handle liquor sales would put more pressure on profit margins , which were already very weak because of high fixed costs and a reliance on discount vouchers , Mr Dennis said .
He expected Philip Clarke , Tesco chief executive , to review the business this summer .
Tesco shares closed down 0.1 per cent at 408.p - underperforming a broad market rally that followed US payroll numbers that beat market expectations .
The FTSE 100 bounced from two days of sharp declines to close up 1 per cent , or 56.79 points , to 5,976.77.
The rally trimmed its loss for the week to 1.5 per cent .
Royal Bank of Scotland led Friday 's blue-chip risers , up 5.6 per cent to 42.p , after its first-quarter results proved better than expected .
Miners tracked the copper price , which rebounded from a five-month low on the back of the US data .
Anglo American took on 3.3 per cent to [ pound]30.43 , Vedanta Resources rose 3.3 per cent to [ pound]21.94 and Xstrata was 2.3 per cent higher at [ pound]14.42.
Oil producers also found renewed support .
BG Group , which posts quarterly results on Tuesday , rose 2.1 per cent to [ pound]14.35.
Arm Holdings - a stock that had been buffeted all week by theories about competition from Intel - rallied from an opening decline to close stronger by 4.9 per cent to 595p .
The latest industry talk was that Apple , rather than switching its handheld devices from Arm to Intel as per a previous story , was now looking at switching from Intel to Arm in its laptops .
ITV rose 4.9 per cent to 75.p ahead of a trading update due Wednesday , which analysts have forecasted to be very weak due to a sharp decline in advertising sales over April .
" We believe ITV 's current share price has already factored in the worse-thanexpected second quarter , " said JPMorgan Cazenove .
The update " may be an opportunity to buy the stock as we believe the worse-than-expected secondquarter revenues for European free TV are not the sign of a structural change in the advertising recovery , but a blip , " it said .
Serco , the public services outsourcer , gained 1.9 per cent to 547p after a contract win with Australia 's prison service helped ease concerns ahead of a trading update on Monday .
Among the fallers , hedge fund manager Man Group lost 2.3 per cent to 247.p on expectations that the higher market volatility over recent days would be costly to AHL , its key fund .
With AHL sitting just below the level at which Man could start charging performance fees , the stock tended to amplify the fund 's direction , analysts said .
Other money managers retreated in the wake of Thursday 's weaker-thanforecast figures from Schroders , down 1.2 per cent to [ pound]16.80.
Hargreaves Lansdown lost 1.4 per cent to 609.p and SVG Capital retreated by 1.1 per cent to 270p .
But Brewin Dolphin rose 3.3 per cent to 173.p after Peel Hunt started coverage with a 205p target price .
It forecast continuing growth in assets under management to drive 18 per cent compound earnings growth over the next three years .
Short covering helped squeeze Cable & Wireless Worldwide to the top of the mid-cap risers .
The stock rose 6.2 per cent to 49.p after a newswire suggested the telecoms group may be up for sale .
C&W 's network infrastructure , corporate clients and tax losses totalling [ pound]3.5bn may be valuable to a UK mobile operator such as Vodafone , said analysts .
However , the attractions needed to be balanced by the company 's poor trading record and weak cash generation , they said .
Vodafone fell 1 per cent at 167.p.
Cobham was up 2.1 percent to 225.p on news it would dispose of its analytics and commercial systems divisions .
" Cobham is the European defence company that is best addressing a shrinking defence market , " said Citigroup , which added the stock to its " buy " list .
" It is crystallising value for shareholders . "
Biggest movers , Page 21 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
