Tesco Christmas sales up 5.9 % *Organic foods boost UK 's biggest retail chain*Demand for premium ranges reflects trend
Tesco underlined its UK strength yesterday when the nation 's biggest retail chain reported a 5.9 per cent rise in underlying sales over the Christmas period , helped by strong demand for organic food , cashmere sweaters and flat-screen televisions .
The chain said sales of organic foods rose 39 per cent , as its like-for-like performance came in just ahead of analysts ' expectations .
The growth in popularity of organic and premium rangesechoed a trend seen by all the grocers over Christmas 2006 .
Sainsbury 's premium sales grew by a fifth over the quarter .
Wm Morrison - the best-performing supermarket chain over Christmas , with sales up 6.3 per cent - saw its premium lines grow 40 per cent .
" We have seen a flight to quality , " said Steve Esom , managing director of Waitrose , the upmarket supermarket chain , which now accounts for 8 per cent of all organic sales in the UK .
Marks and Spencer is thought to have seen sales of organic produce rise by half over the six-week Christmas window .
The Competition Commission inquiry into the sector , which could see the watchdog release its initial findings next week , cast a shadow over Tesco'sperformance .
" The valuation is up with events and the forthcoming Competition Commission statement may raise some concerns , " wrote David McCarthy , analyst at Citigroup .
Tesco , which is nearly twice the size of its nearest competitors , is under particular scrutiny over its market share and " land bank " of sites for new stores .
The shares , which have outperformed the FTSE All Share index by 5 per cent in the past month , closed 1 per cent lower at 415.5p.
Tesco 's online division , which includes the first-time contribution of Tesco Direct , also saw strong growth , with sales up more than 30 per cent to Pounds 150m .
Tesco said it would extend Tesco Direct in the spring , by putting dedicated kiosks into a number of its stores as well as extending the catalogue .
However , Andrew Higginson , finance director , was cautious on prospects in the UK .
" We are concerned ( about the interest rate rises ) .
We will be encouraging the Bank of England topause given the level of debt now .
" Consumers have been driving the economy for the past 10 to 15 years and it is important that we do n't kill the goose that laid the golden egg . "
Tesco said overall store inflation - the price paid by thecustomer - was 0.1 per cent higher over the period as rises in the price of food were offset by falling fuel prices and deflation in some of the chain 's non-food lines .
International sales , however , came in short of expectations with growth of 15.8 per cent because of weakness in Thailand and Hungary .
