Tesco stays top of growth table *Retailer delivers stronger figures than rivals for fifth year running *Market gives a lukewarm response *Shares drop 1.8 %
Tesco reaffirmed its position at the top of the supermarket heap yesterday .
Britain 's largest retailer delivered stronger headline growth than its competitors for the fifth year running .
However , the market , which has become used to Tesco significantly outperforming its rivals , gave a lukewarm response to the figures , which showed under-lying sales up 5.7 per cent in the seven weeks to January 7 with volumes up 7.2 per cent .
Andrew Fowler , analyst at Merrill Lynch , Tesco 's house broker , said the numbers showed that the retailer " whilst firmly good is no longer exceptional " .
The shares closed 1.8 per cent lower at 312 1/ 4p .
They have underperformed the food retailing sector by 3.3 per cent since their recent low in October .
Andy Higginson , Tesco finance director , said he was delighted with the performance .
" We have had two huge Christmases .
With like- for-like volumes up 7.2 per cent , to have held these gains and to have seen no switching back ( by customers ) to Sainsbury 's , we are really pleased . "
J Sainsbury showed a 5.2 per cent rise in underlying sales in the third quarter .
Asked whether Tesco was concerned about Sainsbury 's nascent revival , Mr Higginson said : " We are worried about everyone but we have been here before and you have to measure these things over time . "
Merrill said in a note that it thought Sainsbury had beaten Tesco on an underlying basis over the festive period , given that Tesco 's like-for-like figure had been inflated by store extensions and maturing new space .
" On identical space , Sainsbury 's like-for-like gain will have been better than Tesco 's for the first time in a very long time , " Mr Fowler wrote .
Tesco 's total sales over the period grew 11.5 per cent against 12.1 per cent last year .
It said the internet performance had been particularly strong as it took 1.75m orders , equivalent to Pounds 1.5m of turnover , and also singled out home entertainment , clothing and its Finest food range as strong sellers .
Mr Higginson said he expected the UK retail market to remain tough , with the trends of price deflation and rising costs continuing .
Tesco said price deflation stood at 1.5 per cent over the seven weeks .
" People will carry on being cautious .
While prices are going down for food , the cost of filling your car and fuel bills at home are all going up and so people will be feeling the pinch . "
The international business , which accounts for just over one- fifth of profits , had a slowdown in sales , which rose 16.1 per cent over the period .
They rose 23.3 per cent in the previous quarter .
Full-year profit forecasts are unchanged at Pounds 2.1bn-Pounds 2.2bn.
