Tesco up on hopes that expansion plan cuts will help trigger buybacks
LONDON
Hopes of a cash return lifted Tesco as the FTSE 100 's rally extended into a third day .
Tesco was up 2.7 per cent to 316.3p after UBS said the supermarket could feasibly buy back nearly pound(s)8bn of equity over the next five years .
Added to dividends , this would equate to returning about 60 per cent of its current market capitalisation to shareholders , it said .
By stabilising the core UK business , cutting expansion spending and rolling back international ambitions , Tesco would become " a lower growth but more cash generative investment proposition , " UBS said .
" Since April , we have become more convinced both that this is the strategy that Tesco will follow and that it will create value for shareholders . "
The focus on shareholder returns would mean closing Tesco 's US division , it said .
" Although we understand management 's desire to give the Fresh & Easy concept every opportunity to prove itself , ongoing disappointments and the apparently insurmountable economics of the model make meaningful value creation a more distant prospect than ever , " said UBS .
It forecast the US chain to remain lossmaking until at least 2016 .
The " prospect of a decisive shift in strategy towards cash generation " led UBS to add Tesco to its " buy " list with a 370p price target .
Miners underpinned the wider market as US housebuilding figures gave copper its biggest gain in a month .
The FTSE 100 rose 0.7 per cent , adding 40.37 points to 5,910.91.
ENRC was up 7.3 per cent to 352.2p and Kazakhmys added 7.2 per cent to 760p .
Vedanta Resources took on 4.4 per cent to pound(s)11.47.
Rio Tinto was up 4 per cent to pound(s)31.84 after a union official was quoted as saying that Rio was planning to cut about 30 per cent of its European workforce by the end of 2013 .
BHP Billiton rose 3.3 per cent to pound(s)20.14 and Xstrata took on 3.1 per cent to 993.6p after their quarterly production reports delivered few surprises .
BP gained 3 per cent to 448.4p as the group edged closer to agreeing the sale of its TNK-BP stake to Rosneft .
Better than expected production figures from BHP 's Gulf of Mexico- focused oil operations provided an extra fillip for BP .
Tullow Oil rose 3 per cent to pound(s)14.68 amid speculation of a drilling success at Zaedyus , its oil discovery off the coast of French Guiana .
Small-cap stakeholders in the Zaedyus well also saw strong demand with Northern Petroleum up 9.2 per cent to 68p and Wessex Exploration jumping 21.8 per cent to 8.3p.
But Dragon Oil slid 5.6 per cent to 579p .
Merrill Lynch downgraded the explorer from " buy " to " underperform " , arguing that production from its Turkmenistan projects was likely to fall short of management 's own guidance .
Home Retail Group climbed 5.2 per cent to 108.9p amid expectations that new managing director John Walden would present a strategic review to reshape the group 's Argos business .
" We would like to see a more radical downsizing of the store estate , a step-up in the pace of technology in store and an improvement of the store environment for customers , which appears to have started already , " said Merrill Lynch .
" Also Argos may consider using its space more for reserve and collect for other retailers . "
Reassuring results from luxury sector peer LVMH boosted Burberry by 1.9 per cent to pound(s)11.86.
Flare maker Chemring rose 4.4 per cent to 353p , awaiting news on Carlyle 's takeover talks .
Rumours were doing the rounds that the private equity fund was pulling together a syndicate to fund its potential bid .
The Takeover Panel last week extended Carlyle 's deadline to make an offer to November 9 .
A reheat of theories among day traders that Shire might be a takeover target helped the drugmaker edge 0.8 per cent higher to pound(s)18.70.
Credit Suisse repeated its " outperform " stance on Shire ahead of third-quarter results due next Thursday .
Inchcape , the car dealership , rose 5.8 per cent to 377.4p on speculation that it would flag up a share buyback at a trading update next week .
Equipment hire group Ashtead firmed 3.2 per cent to 356.4p after main US rival Ashtead beat forecasts with its third-quarter earnings .
Direct L ine added 2 per cent to 193p , taking its gain since flotation last week to 10.3 per cent .
The insurer said after the close that it had sold a 34.5 per cent stake via the float after Goldman Sachs exercised an overallotment option .
Biggest movers , Page 29
Credit : By Bryce Elder
