Tesco expects Pounds 300m profit rise
* Increase is same amount as Sainsbury 's annual earnings
* UK 's biggest supermarket group reports strong first-quarter sales growth
Tesco yesterday batted off the trading woes besetting the high street as Britain 's biggest supermarket group reported a strong rise in first-quarter sales .
The strong performance puts Tesco on track to increase its profits by more than Pounds 300m this year , which is the same amount of profit that J Sainsbury , its nearest quoted competitor , is set to make , according to Andrew Fowler , of house broker Merrill Lynch .
" If ( on Thursday ) the good ship Sainsbury reassured passengers with its gentle cruising speed , the starship Tesco remains on course to grow profit by the equivalent of the entire annual profit of its nearest quoted UK rival , " Mr Fowler wrote in a note yesterday .
Andy Higginson , finance director , described the 6.8 per cent rise in like-for-like sales growth excluding fuel in the 12 weeks to May 21 as " exceptional " .
On Thursday , Sainsbury reported a 1.3 per cent rise in its underlying performance .
" These are exceptional numbers and some of that is down to the competition stumbling a bit , but we are also doing a great job , " said Mr Higginson .
Wm Morrison , the fourth largest supermarket group , has issued five profits warnings in less than a year as it struggles to integrate Safeway , while Asda 's new chief executive , Andy Bond , admitted recently that the second largest supermarket group was also struggling to boost sales .
Mr Higginson said Tesco would continue to cut prices in the coming year , having invested Pounds 230m in price cuts last year .
He said Tesco 's price deflation stood at 1.8 per cent over the quarter .
The only blip was Tesco Personal Finance , which saw a rise in bad debts on credit cards and rising costs in car insurance claims .
The news led Merrill to trim its profit forecast for the division by Pounds 11m , although it left full year group forecasts unchanged at Pounds 2.32bn.
Tesco 's international business , which accounted for one-fifth of Tesco 's Pounds 37.1bn sales last year , was also " performing well " , with underlying sales up 5.5 per cent .
Tesco said this was largely due to customers responding to price cuts in its network of 202 stores in central Europe .
Overall group sales rose 14.6 per cent , with international sales up 19.9 per cent and the UK up 11.3 per cent .
Despite the success , Tesco came under fire from private shareholders and campaign groups at its annual meeting , with one investor comparing the group to a " plague of locusts " in its efforts to move into convenience stores .
Tesco shares dipped 2p to 316p .
Hard evidence , Page 13 Tooth and nail ; Lombard , Page M2 Mudlark , Page M4
