Tesco to grapple with plan to expand
News analysis ; From the US to banking , the retailer faces some tough challenges ahead , writes Andrea Felsted
When Tesco updates the market next week on its Christmas trading , analysts will be looking for signs that a big promotional push in its home market is paying off .
But the ferociously competitive UK grocery market is not the only area where Tesco faces a crucial test this year .
It is also striving to become " the people 's bank " , while it must make a success of its foray into the US .
According to Dave McCarthy , analyst at Evolution Securities : " Tesco has a challenging year ahead , probably its most difficult year in more than a decade as it faces a number of issues on a number of fronts . "
In November 2007 , the group invaded the US grocery market - a venture on which Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , has staked his reputation .
But the Tesco juggernaut has been met with the full force of the global economic downturn , which has hit California , Tesco 's launch market , particularly hard .
Tesco has 125 Fresh & Easy stores in southern California , far short of the 500 it had hoped for by February 2010 .
Laurie McIlwee , finance director , said recently that there were signs of improvement at Fresh & Easy after the business was relaunched , with sales rising 37.4 per cent in the third quarter , and also stronger like-for-like sales .
Consequently , Tesco ex-pects the business to make a loss over the full year close to its $259m ( pound(s)160m ) deficit of last year .
According to Michael Dennis , analyst at MF Global , Tesco has invested about $1.4bn in Fresh & Easy .
He forecasts that it will have lost about $650m between its launch and February 2010 .
Tesco has also put an expansion into northern California on hold but has continued to acquire sites in central to northern California .
It is opening four stores in the Fresno area , its most northerly location to date .
Lucy Neville-Rolfe , corporate and legal affairs director at Tesco , says the retailer will move further north when it makes sense to do so .
" We did not expect to have the greatest recession since the 1930s .
What we have got to do is do the right thing , " she says .
Ms Neville-Rolfe also points out that Tesco , which operates in 14 countries , has international opportunities elsewhere .
She is upbeat on Asia , which is coming out of recession more rapidly than other markets .
She points to China , which will be a big focus for Tesco this year , and India .
The Indian market largely " missed " the recession , and Tesco will be the supplier to Star Bazaar , the hypermarket chain of Tata Group 's retail arm , and also plans to open its own cash and carry store this year .
Markets in eastern Europe are also improving , Ms Neville-Rolfe says , as is Ireland .
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , says economic headwinds are abating , not only in Tesco 's home market , but internationally .
" A year ago the economic wheels were falling off Tesco 's bus , " he says .
" Now those wheels are back on and , if anything , Tesco is a little bit of a leaner , meaner machine , capable of going faster in terms of paying down debt and focusing on the business . "
But Tesco 's challenges do not end in the US .
Another issue facing Tesco is whether it can recapture its poise in the UK grocery market , which accounts for more than two-thirds of its profits and sales .
For much of 2009 it lagged behind its main rivals in terms of UK sales growth based on stores open at least a year .
In a bid to close the gap , it has invested hundreds of millions of pounds in its Clubcard loyalty scheme , offering customers double points and mailing out pound(s)67m ( $108m ) of vouchers in November , which would normally have been sent in February .
In spite of the Clubcard assault , Tesco 's UK likefor-like sales in the three months to the end of November rose by 2.8 per cent , less than expectations .
" It strikes us that either the [ Clubcard ] initiative is n't working or that the underlying business is continuing to underperform , " said analysts at Morgan Stanley .
Ms Neville-Rolfe says : " I do n't think you should draw that conclusion at all .
So far we are pleased . "
Mr McIlwee says Tesco 's third-quarter sales covered a period when spiralling increases in food prices came to an end .
Rivals ' figures still included food price inflation .
Tesco expects the beefed up Clubcard to have a bigger impact on its Christmas trading .
Andrew Kasoulis , analyst at Credit Suisse , is forecasting UK like-for-like sales growth of 3 per cent for the six weeks to January 9 , in line with J Sainsbury for the third quarter .
But even a strong performance could prove controversial .
Mr McCarthy says : " There are more than pound(s)100m of extra Clubcard vouchers in circulation against last year .
" If Tesco counts these as cash sales in its Christmas trading statement and treats them as it did in its third-quarter trading statement , it will artificially inflate reported sales by 1 to 2 per cent . "
Tesco has rejected any suggestion of additional Clubcard vouchers artificially inflating sales , and Ms Neville-Rolfe says that if they make an unexpected difference to sales , Tesco will make this clear .
She adds that vouchers make no difference to profit .
If this were not enough to contend with , Tesco has embarked on an aggressive assault on banking .
While banks are bloodied by the financial crisis , retailers are largely unscathed .
Therefore Tesco has a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to poach their customers .
But building a bank is expensive and time consuming .
Tesco admitted recently that it would not reach its goal of having 30 in-store branches by the end of 2009 , as it had hoped .
It has also revealed that it may not begin offering a current account - the main banking relationship - until 2011 .
However , it is being slightly more aggressive on the potential timing of mortgages , which it could launch towards the end of 2010 .
" I do n't think we are slipping , " says Ms Neville-Rolfe .
" We always said a couple of years .
If we were to do mortgages [ in 2010 ] , that would be quicker rather than slower . "
