Tesco leads stocks lower as fears about turnround plan return
london
Tesco led the London market lower yesterday on renewed fears that its turnround was off track .
Interim results on Wednesday revived worries that the main drag on the retailer 's earnings and cash flow was unprofitable expansion , rather than repair work following its profit warning in January .
Citigroup highlighted a 22 per cent drop in Tesco 's net operating cash flow for the first half , a trend the management blamed in part on timing issues with working capital .
The company has also emphasised its strategy of recruiting staff and fixing service levels to undo years of underinvestment .
But Citi blamed the earnings slump on Tesco 's expansion programme , which it said was creating " adverse sales leverage " .
Investing to add new space in lower-return areas reduced profit margins , which multiplied the drag on cash flow , it said .
Citi also reckoned Tesco would have to cut prices - a strategy so far rejected by management .
While the big-four grocers all had similar prices , the fast-growing Aldi chain was about 25 per cent cheaper , it said .
" On its current trajectory it seems likely to us that Tesco will , within a few years , have stopped growing space to a meaningful extent , " said Citi .
" It would also be forced to cut prices .
The result would be an entity without growth or free cash flow generation . "
Tesco closed 3 per cent lower at 318.2p , its sharpest fall since the January profit warning .
More than five times the average volume changed hands , with one seller dumping a line of nearly 62m shares or 0.8 per cent of the total in issue .
The wider market remained somewhat rangebound for a third straight day , leaving the FTSE 100 up 1.97 points at 5,827.78.
InterContinental Hotels rose 1.8 per cent to pound(s)16.69 after Marriott International 's earnings beat forecasts , although the US group also tempered guidance for the current quarter on international weakness .
InterContinental 's strength in China has long been seen as making it a potential bid target for Marriott .
Tate & Lyle gained 1.9 per cent to 687p after Credit Suisse turned positive .
The group 's efforts in recent years to shed its commodity products leave Tate in better shape to deliver growth , but have not yet been rewarded with a rerating for the shares , Credit Suisse said .
Halfords jumped 14.1 per cent to 303.5p after reporting its best like-for-like sales in more than three years .
The retailer , which also appointed a new chief overnight , reported impr-oved sales in all categories , led by demand for bicycles .
Other retailers followed , with Next rising 2.7 per cent to pound(s)35.92 and Marks & Spencer up 1 per cent to 365.5p.
Trade data suggested stronger clothing sales in recent weeks , and falling cotton prices should start to benefit over the next few quarters , said Nomura Securities .
Sports Direct gained 6.3 per cent to 382.8p , a record high .
Seymour Pierce added the stock to its " buy " list following an analyst 's visit to the company 's main warehouse .
" We came back reassured that in particular the internet strategy is taking shape , is picking up momentum and is a major focus of management , " Seymour Pierce said .
" We are also coming to believe that the company could be a major force in the sporting goods category on the internet , not only in the UK , but also overseas . "
Currency printer De La Rue took on 1.9 per cent to pound(s)10.43 on the back of an upgrade from JPMorgan Cazenove .
Polymer bank-notes have been steadily gaining acceptance across the world and can add 6 per cent to De La Rue 's sales by 2015 , it said .
Mitchells & Butlers rose 2.9 per cent to 301p after JP McManus and John Magnier raised their stake in the pubs group to 22.47 per cent with the purchase of 7m shares .
Bookmaker BWin Party , persistently the subject of bid speculation of late , added 6.2 per cent to 116.1p.
US and Asian gaming groups have been linked with BWin , but analysts have questioned the gossip given regulatory problems in Germany , the group 's biggest single market .
Among small caps , Ceres Power dropped 77 per cent to 2p after the boiler developer said it had failed to secure funding and was looking to wind down if a buyer could not be found .
A profit warning sent Promethean World , the electronic whiteboard maker , dropping 26.3 per cent to 17.5p.
Industrial chain maker Renold , down 21.7 per cent to 20.8p , also warned that profits would miss forecasts because of weaker demand throughout Europe .
Biggest movers , Page 29
Credit : By Bryce Elder
