Tesco experiments with Clubcard as it seeks to lift UK sales growth
FOOD & DRUG RETAILERS
Tesco has been experimenting with further beefing up its Clubcard loyalty scheme as it fights to boost sales growth in its home market .
Britain 's biggest retailer has issued high-spending Clubcard holders with a coupon to earn triple points on their shopping .
The move follows a scheme to let customers double the value of Clubcard vouchers in certain product areas .
The triple Clubcard point promotion , which runs for three weeks , also comes close to the anniversary of Tesco 's move in August 2009 to reward Clubcard holders with two points for every pound(s)1 spent in store and online , rather than a single point .
The move has raised questions among some analysts as to whether Tesco is considering a more permanent shift from double to triple points to continue the sales momentum from the loyalty scheme last year .
" Is this a test market for Tesco going to ongoing triple points either permanently or perhaps in the run-up to Christmas ? " said Dave McCarthy , analyst at Evolution Securities , and a Tesco critic , in a note to clients .
" Double Green Shield Stamps led to treble stamps which in turn led to huge costs and major problems at Tesco in the 1970s .
We hope that Tesco is not considering going to treble points permanently - this would mean Tesco starting each week with a cost of pound(s)15m-pound(s)20m , and it would make Clubcard one of the biggest costs the company faces after employment costs and costs of goods sold . "
However , people familiar with Tesco 's thinking insisted that the promotion was not a precursor to a permanent move .
They said that Tesco ran Clubcard promotions from time to time on a variety of different fronts .
Furthermore , the scheme is time limited .
" The triple points coupon is a short promotion targeted at a small number of the most dedicated Clubcard users .
It is our way of saying thank you for their loyalty , " a spokesman said .
But the move comes at a delicate time for Tesco , which reports interim results early next month .
In the first quarter , Tesco 's underlying sales growth in the UK fell to its lowest level in at least six years as falling food price inflation took its toll on the world 's third-largest grocer by sales .
The promotion could also stoke controversy over the way Tesco reports the impact of extra Clubcard vouchers in its sales figures .
Some analysts last year called for more clarity .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
