Tesco pushed to three-year low after customers shop elsewhere
LONDON
Market share concerns dragged Tesco to a 3 1/2 -year low in a flat FTSE 100 .
Tesco has lost more key UK customers in the past year than any of its rivals , according to a survey from Morgan Stanley .
While 78 per cent of people surveyed had shopped at Tesco in the past 12 months , those using the grocer for their main shop had fallen from 40 per cent last year to 36 per cent .
" Tesco is losing loyal shoppers but not yet taking steps to tackle their biggest area of concern - price , " said the broker .
Since its profit warning in January , Tesco has set out to revive UK sales by investing in store refits , staffing and improved product ranges .
But customer perceptions of value for money have continued to deteriorate and the majority want improvements in pricing , said Morgan Stanley .
Tesco fell 1.6 per cent to 304.5p , taking its loss this year to 25 per cent .
Morgan Stanley repeated " underweight " advice in a note sent to clients overnight .
The wider market pared initial gains to leave the FTSE 100 up by 4.81 points , or 0.1 per cent , at 5,356.34 by the close .
A holiday in the US meant blue-chip volume was down 45 per cent on the recent average .
IAG , the British Airways and Iberia owner , lost a further 2.7 per cent to 137.1p on expectations that Bankia was preparing to sell its 12.05 per cent stake as part of a recapitalisation effort .
The bank said over the weekend that it would give details of stake sales next month when the lender delivered its strategic plan .
BP fell 1.9 per cent to 399.7p following the resignation of Mikhail Fridman , TNK-BP chief executive and chairman .
The news revived fears about whether BP could remain part of the Russian joint venture , which provides about a quarter of its production .
B&Q owner Kingfisher lost 1.8 per cent to 274.9p ahead of first-quarter results due Thursday , which were widely expected to disappoint because of inclement April weather .
" We expect like-for-like sales in the UK will be the worst Kingfisher has reported in at least the last decade , " said Bernstein Research .
Among the gainers , Kesa Electricals rose 3 per cent to 49.1p after activist investor Knight Vinke raised its stake above 25 per cent with the purchase of just over 1m shares .
Argos owner Home Retail Group rose 0.5 per cent to 77.5p after Terry Duddy , chief executive , bought 160,000 shares at 76.87p each .
Capita was up 3 per cent to 629p after UBS added the outsourcer to its " buy " list .
Two years of declining organic revenue and increased acquisitions had weighed on returns and pushed the stock 's valuation to an all-time low , said UBS .
" Analysis of [ Capita 's ] largest recent acquisitions has given us comfort regarding the quality of the businesses acquired , the financial dynamics and , most importantly , their clear links to attractive and growing markets . "
Packaging maker Rexam rose 2.1 per cent to 400.7p , awaiting the sale of its personal care division , which is expected this week .
Private equity funds Sun European Partners and Oaktree Capital were said to be frontrunners for the business , which analysts have valued at about pound(s)350m .
" We would expect Rexam to clarify the use of proceeds upon announcing the transaction , " said Merrill Lynch , which repeated " buy " advice .
" If we assume pound(s)250m-300m is returned , this equates to 7 per cent - 9 per cent of the market capitalisation , in addition to Rexam 's recurring 3.5-4.0 per cent dividend yield . "
Aquarius Platinum broke an 11-day losing streak , up 8.7 per cent to 74p .
The miner said its Mimosa facility had not been affected by Zimbabwe suspending banking services for some mining companies .
Comments from a sector peer also helped the stock with Ian Farmer , Lonmin chief executive , telling Absa Capital analysts that it would be cheaper to buy Aquarius than to build new mining capacity .
Essar Energy dropped 4.9 per cent to 109p after Morgan Stanley said results next month from the Indian power company may disappoint .
Unless the group is cleared to begin coal mining , it may have to delay the commissioning of its Mahan power station again , said Morgan Stanley .
Among small caps , Magnolia Petroleum jumped 25.6 per cent to 2.45p on hopes of an oil strike in Oklahoma , where the company owns a stake in a Chesapeake Energy field .
Biggest movers , Page 29
Credit : By Bryce Elder
