Tesco under pressure from talk of a cut in earnings guidance
Tesco hit a four-month low yesterday as analysts raised fears that the grocer would cut earnings guidance .
Ahead of a trading update this week , Tesco slipped 1.9 per cent to 358.5p.
Investec Securities argued that management needed to rein in guidance so that it can keep UK profit margins stable .
" Tesco is not a growth stock , nor is it an income stock and it lacks momentum , " it said .
With sales falling and customers moving online , Tesco 's only option to defend margins is by raising prices , Investec said .
But such a strategy would push the grocer " down the doom loop , not shift it to the virtuous circle " , it argued .
The broker also reckoned its international expansion continued to destroy shareholder value .
" International is a growing problem and after 15 years there is no sign of acceptable returns , " it said .
Analysts expect Tesco 's trading update due tomorrow to show that sales growth has stalled since Christmas , with same-store sales expected to be down by about 0.5 per cent .
The reversal " may remind the market that signs of Tesco 's recovery remain pretty limited , despite management 's best efforts " , said Barclays .
Wider market jitters sent the FTSE 100 lower by 57.97 points , or 0.9 per cent , to a one-month low of 6,525.12.
Arm Holdings led the blue-chip fallers with a 7 per cent loss at 919p after Samsung , a key customer , confirmed it was switching to an Intel processor for one of its high-specification Android tablets .
Industry blogs had reported the news last month , which was Intel 's first design win for a mass-market non-Windows tablet .
" While the Arm camp should maintain dominant market share in the tablet PC market , the news Intel has finally landed a tier-one tablet design win could take a bite out of Arm 's share price , " said Benchmark analysts .
Lonmin dropped 4.3 per cent to 282.4p after two union officials were shot , one fatally , near its Marikana mine in South Africa .
The shootings were near where police shot 34 miners last August during a turf war between rival unions .
Other miners edged higher in tandem with metals prices .
Antofagasta gained 2.6 per cent to 970.5p and Vedanta Resources added 2.3 per cent to pound(s)12.91.
Polymetal International led the precious metals producers , up 1.9 per cent to 703.5p , after JPMorgan Cazenove turned positive in a sector review .
" Providing a natural hedge against inflation and global risks ( both currently subsided ) , gold could be at the point of minimal downside , supporting an attractive investment case for gold stocks with executable growth [ and ] stable costs , " it said .
Tullow Oil added 1.6 per cent to pound(s)10.62 following Ghana 's approval last week of development plans for its $4.5bn TEN oil project .
Heritage Oil was up 4 per cent to 147.5p after Goldman Sachs added the explorer to its " buy " list .
The broker also turned positive on Gulf Keystone Petroleum , up 1.1 per cent to 160.5p , and on Igas Energy , which jumped 12.6 per cent to 104.8p.
Ocado slipped 1.9 per cent to 266.7p.
After the close , Odey Asset Management declared a 5 per cent holding , valued at nearly pound(s)78m , in the delivery group .
Fastjet , the African low-cost airline , slumped 33.5 per cent to 0.8p amid a profit warning .
Biggest movers , Page 29
Credit : By Bryce Elder
