Tesco chief cautious despite store 's pound(s)3.1bn record profit
GENERAL RETAILERS ; News analysis ; UK group hit by losses on its new US convenience chain , writes Elizabeth Rigby
In the midst of the worst recession of a generation , Sir Terry Leahy proved his calibre once again yesterday as he overcame the obvious obstacles to deliver yet another year of record profits and growth at Tesco .
In his thirteenth year as chief executive of the UK 's biggest supermarket chain , Sir Terry impressed the City on most counts .
Against the backdrop of a global downturn , trading profit rose 8.8 per cent year-on-year to pound(s)3.1bn ( $4.5bn ) .
As consumers across many of Tesco 's 14 markets tighten their belts , it lifted group sales by 13.5 per cent to pound(s)60bn .
Even in the UK , where Tesco 's underlying sales growth of 3 per cent for the year is clearly lagging rivals Wm Morrison and Asda , Sir Terry still turned in a best-in-class trading margin of 6.2 per cent , helped by some crafty cost-cutting ( to the tune of pound(s)540m in the past financial year ) .
So far , so good .
But Sir Terry surprised with a couple of nasties in the results .
First , the retailer 's net debt has ballooned to pound(s)9.6bn from pound(s)6.2bn in the past year .
Second , Sir Terry 's ambition to build Fresh & Easy , a convenience business in the US - a venture on which the chief executive has staked his reputation - has performed worse than anyone dared imagine .
Instead of opening up to 500 stores by February 2010 , Tesco will have at most 177 .
Instead of breaking even this year , Tesco is now looking at another year of losses .
It is hardly the auspicious start that Sir Terry desired .
The first problem , assured Laurie McIIwee , the finance director , is not insurmountable .
While net debt is some pound(s)1.6bn higher than Tesco had guided to last year ( it says pound(s)1bn of that is due to adverse currency movements ) , Mr McIIwee says it will be easy to bring it back down during the course of 2009 by , for example , selling property .
Furthermore , it is unlikely to be scooping up businesses as it did last year when it splashed out nearly pound(s)1bn buying 36 hypermarkets in South Korea , while spending a similar amount buying in 50 per cent of Tesco Personal Finance from the Royal Bank of Scotland .
But if the net debt situation is manageable , sorting out Tesco US is a little more out of Sir Terry 's control .
" You ca n't escape trying to start a business in the teeth of a downturn , " said Sir Terry over a lunch of scallops and chicken , " It is on the level of the IMF Asia crisis of 1997 . "
Having committed to invest up to pound(s)1.25bn in the chain in the five years to 2012 , Fresh & Easy , racked up another pound(s)140m of losses this year .
The third challenge facing the chief executive is closer to home .
Over the past year he has been fighting a battle against the hard discounters Aldi and Lidl , as well as his more entrenched rivals Asda and Wm Morrison , who have been stealing market share .
Sir Terry , who garners more than two-thirds of his profits and sales from his home turf , knows he must turn this round .
" Some retailers are doing higher like for likes .
We have to recognise that and examine whether we can do more , " he says .
He adds that part of the lag is due to the introduction last year of Tesco 's discount brands , which has " helped consumers trade down in stores and reduces our rate of inflation " ( which he says is 2-3 per cent below competitors ) .
But he insists that the UK core is on the mend .
Tesco says it has stemmed the flow of shoppers out of Tesco 's stores and into the arms of Lidl and Aldi .
The next challenge is to get customers , who are shopping around supermarkets for bargains , to start spending more in Tesco once more .
In the coming couple of weeks , Sir Terry is relaunching his 15m membership Clubcard loyalty scheme in an effort to get customers to spend more in his stores by improving the Clubcard incentives .
He is also diversifying into retail banking and telecoms stores in an effort to eke out new revenue streams in a mature UK market .
Having seen out 2008 successfully , Sir Terry is still going to find himself pushing water up a hill in the coming months .
" There are signs of stability in some markets , but it is too early to call it a recovery , " he said yesterday .
" The market is always changing and you have to keep on your toes . "
Credit : By Elizabeth Rigby , Consumer Industries Editor
