Tesco sales fall despite pound(s)500m in price cuts
GENERAL RETAILERS ; Revenues decrease 0.9 % on year ago ; Contingency plan for eurozone failure
Tesco , the world 's thirdbiggest supermarket chain by sales , is making contingency plans for the collapse of the eurozone , while its UK performance has failed to revive despite pound(s)500m of price cuts .
Laurie McIlwee , finance director , also revealed that Tesco would not enter into contracts to purchase stock a long way in the future , or place big orders , until there was more certainty in the eurozone .
" You would not go long on any contract with any kind of supplier , so everything in the market is becoming much more short-term , " he said .
Mr McIlwee said Tesco had reduced currency exposure and already raised the money in the bond markets to pay off a EUR1.5bn eurobond maturing in September next year .
The company already had the cash in the bank ready , he added , because it did not want to take the risk of credit markets seizing up .
If it had not been possible to refinance this bond " we would have [ had ] to cut back our own capital expenditure " , he said .
" It is not a shock that you want to face . "
Mr McIlwee added : " Any business has to take seriously the disruption in the eurozone . "
However , he stressed that Tesco was largely focused on countries in central Europe outside the single currency area .
The comments came as Tesco revealed that its programme of pound(s)500m of price cuts launched in September had failed to improve sales at its UK stores that had been open for at least a year .
UK like-for-like sales , excluding fuel and VAT , fell by 0.9 per cent in the 13 weeks to November 26 , compared with the year earlier period , similar to the preceding quarter .
Mr McIlwee defended the performance , saying that the volume of goods sold in the third quarter rose by about 1 percentage point , outperforming the market by about 2 percentage points in terms of volume , according to industry data .
But it had also shown that Tesco 's average price per item was falling , meaning less money was going through its tills .
" Big Price Drop is not a promotion , or a quick fix .
It 's a medium-term strategy and its lasting impact should be judged after months , not weeks . "
However , he added that Britons were " not far off the position we had at the bottom of the 2008 trough of consumer confidence " .
Group sales rose 5.5 per cent year on year , excluding fuel and exchange-rate fluctuations .
This would have been 6 per cent , had it not been for the floods in Thailand which cost it pound(s)50m , although insurance would prevent a profit hit .
Like-for-like sales rose 12 per cent at its US chain .
Tesco has also appointed the long-serving Tesco executive Kevin Grace as group commercial director , after more than a year 's search to fill the newly created role .
Additional reporting by Mark Wembridge
See Lombard
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
