Tesco confident for US venture as sales rise after revamp
general retailers ; Fresh & Easy set for full-year loss
Tesco , the UK 's biggest retailer , said it was seeing signs of improvement in its fledgling business in the US , where it is battling to make a success of its Fresh & Easy venture .
Tesco said its group sales had risen 8.8 per cent , excluding fuel , in the 13 weeks to November 28 , while its international sales had risen 12 per cent , excluding fuel , or 5.4 per cent excluding the effect of currency movements .
The decline in international sales from stores open at least a year narrowed from 6.7 per cent to 3.7 per cent at constant exchange rates .
Sales at Tesco 's US business rose 37.4 per cent .
The retailer said like-for-like sales were stronger at Fresh & Easy , after an overhaul of the range in September and its first significant advertising campaign .
" We have seen a good increase in the number of customers coming into Fresh & Easy stores and a slight uptick in basket size , " said Laurie McIlwee , finance director .
Consequently , Tesco is maintaining its forecasts for Fresh & Easy .
It expects the business to be on track to make a loss over the full year close to its $259m deficit last year .
" It is good that it has not got any worse , " said Mr McIlwee .
The group has also indicated that it could launch a loyalty scheme in the US .
Elsewhere , Tesco saw a " material improvement " in Asia and Europe .
It reported an increase in UK sales from stores open at least a year of 2.8 per cent , below the 3 per cent forecast by analysts polled by Reuters , and slower than the 3.1 per cent expansion in the second quarter .
Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , said in October that Tesco was catching up with , and even eclipsing , UK rivals on sales .
However , Mr McIlwee played this down .
" I would not say we are trending ahead .
We are well in the pack , " he said .
He defended the group 's performance , which he said reflected the fact that increases in food prices were slowing .
He said recent sales figures from some of Tesco 's rivals had included the effects of food price inflation .
Some analysts pointed out that last weekend 's festive spending , which is thought to have been significant , was not included in the period .
Mr McIlwee said competition remained intense in the UK , with promotional activity at an " unprecedented level " .
Tesco is going into the period with a revamped Clubcard loyalty scheme .
Video : www.ft.com / ukview
Credit : By Andrea Felsted in London
