Tesco starts telecoms challenge
Tesco is to compete with high street telecommunications specialists by opening up dedicated " telecoms centres " .
The retailer 's flagship store in Slough will today host the first of such centres , providing customers with mobile handsets , landlines and accessories as well as advice on broadband and home phone services .
Tesco is the largest UK retailer - over the past five years it has captured more than half the growth in the grocery market - and its latest foray may alarm high street telecoms chains such as Carphone Warehouse .
Andy Dewhurst , chief executive at Tesco telecoms , said : " This is not just another mobile phone shop .
At Tesco we are challenging the normal telecoms buying experience , which is complicated , pressured and time-consuming . "
Staff will not be paid on a commission basis to avoid the problems of pressure selling , he added .
Tesco is introducing new services such as the " mobile phone selector " where customers type in their mobile phone requirements and are then given the most suitable handset options .
The launch of the centre in Slough is the first of a number of stores across the country that will see Tesco telecoms test a range of formats .
Last month the retailer showed it was not immune to weakening consumer confidence as it reported the first slowdown in underlying sales growth for two years .
Tesco , which has a 30.2 per cent share of supermarket shopping in the UK , has performed better than the other big three supermarkets .
Overall sales in the UK rose 11.6 per cent in the third quarter .
The company said 3.7 per cent of that growth came from new stores .
Price deflation was 1.6 per cent as Tesco kept cutting prices .
Growth in non-food sales was below the 13 per cent reported in the last quarter but still in double-digits .
Non-food accounted for half of all new space in the UK .
Tesco , which has been expanding its non-food offer , said such sales accounted for about 6.5 per cent of group sales .
The retailer plans to open four more non-food Tesco stores .
