Tesco bucks trend in year of missed targets and warnings
In a year peppered with job losses , profit warnings and missed targets , Tesco managed to buck the wider malaise in the retailing sector and provided the high point of 2005 when it became the first UK retailer to break the Pounds 2bn profit barrier .
It was also the year that saw Tesco 's share of the supermarket shopping sector pass 30 per cent as the UK 's biggest retailer - now spanning into non-food stores - asserted its dominance .
But if Tesco was shining , plenty of others in the supermarket were struggling .
Rival Wm Morrison 's woes were some of the most prominent stories of the yearas the UK 's fourth-largest supermarket struggled with the integration of its Pounds 3.3bn acquisition of Safeway in March 2004 .
The Bradford-based retailer , led by 74-year-old Sir Ken Morrison , grappled with four profit warnings in a few months as the management team was forced to admit its internal accounting team could not cope with the enlarged business .
The finance director was forced to quit - and Sir Ken came under severe pressure amid a very public boardroom spat over the pace of corporate reform .
Then , over in Leeds , Andy Bond , Asda 's chief executive , announced that the UK 's second-largest supermarket group was also in trouble as it missed two consecutive quarters of internal sales and profit targets .
Richard Baker from Boots came under pressure after dishing out two rapid profit warnings on the back of worsening trading .
As a panacea to disgruntled shareholders , he said he was selling BHI , its over-the-counter drugs business .
It sold to Reckitt Benckiser for Pounds 1.92bn.
But that turned out to be a smokescreen for a far bigger deal : the proposed Pounds 7bn merger between Boots and Alliance UniChem .
Announced in October , it was by far the biggest and most significant retailing deal of the year .
At Marks and Spencer , Stuart Rose and his board were also providing entertainment as the non-executive and executive directors got into a spat over whether Paul Myners should stay on as chairman .
In the end , Lord Burns was chosen .
