Tesco edges up on talk of Ahold being potential target
large caps
Tesco was in focus yesterday as the wider market recovered some of the losses sustained in Friday 's late sell-off .
Shares in the retailer edged up just 0.4 per cent to 408.95p ( but lagged behind the FTSE 100 ) following suggestions that it should bid for Dutch rival Ahold .
Peter Brockwell , analyst at ING , said : " The US market is too big for Tesco to ignore yet any attempt to increase the scale of Fresh & Easy could prove very risky .
Ahold should be viewed as a one-off opportunity to acquire an undervalued asset at a low point in the US consumer cycle . "
Mr Brockwell , who retains a " buy " rating , believes a deal could yield synergies of pound(s)493m and lift earnings per share by 14-20 per cent .
The FTSE 100 finished 59.95 points , or 1.2 per cent , higher at 5,104.5 , lifted by reports that showed US factory activity grew more quickly than expected in October and a surprise increase in pending home sales .
The FTSE 250 rose 32.1 points , or 0.3 per cent , to 8,917.9.
Mining stocks led the recovery as investors bought back into the sector or closed positions following the heavy losses last week .
Vedanta rose 5 per cent to pound(s)21.97 , while Xstrata moved up 4.4 per cent to 921 1/2 p.
Rio Tinto added 4.4 per cent to pound(s)28.13 following suggestions in the Australian press that its proposed iron ore joint venture with BHP Billiton , up 2.8 per cent to pound(s)16.90 , could unravel under pressure from shareholders .
Should that happen , the theory is that BHP would then make another bid for Rio , offering 2.3 of its shares for every Rio share .
Based on last night 's closing prices , that would value Rio at pound(s)38.87 a share .
Elsewhere , Randgold Resources added 6 per cent to pound(s)41.96 after agreeing to buy an additional holding in the Moto gold project in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Arbuthnot Securities said : " The acquisition enhances Randgold 's exposure to the project and locks the government into playing ball .
As such , this should be viewed positively by the market . "
Invensys , the controls and automation group , added 4 per cent to 294 1/2 p after Evolution Securities reiterated its " buy " recommendation ahead of half- year results due on Thursday .
Harry Philips , analyst , said a good set of figures could help narrow the valuation gap between Invensys and some its peers , such as ABB .
Part-nationalised banks Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group saw heavy trading .
Shares in RBS fell 7.8 per cent to 38.65p after the bank said it would have to sell more assets than expected to meet European state aid rules .
Analysts said the disposals of RBS 's insurance operations and the sale of branches could dilute earnings by 10 per cent .
Robert Law , at Nomura , said : " RBS continues to look demandingly valued to us .
At the Friday closing price , the market capitalisation is discounting pre-tax profits of at least pound(s)10bn in our view .
The company 's peak profitability in 2007 was pound(s)10.4bn. "
Lloyds fell 2.3 per cent to 85p on rumours that the details of its pound(s)25bn recapitalisation could be announced as early as tomorrow .
This fundraising is likely to be made up of a deeply discounted pound(s)13.5bn rights issue , disposals and contingent convertibles - existing bonds that convert into equity in " stressed scenarios " .
Cairn Energy eased 0.1 to pound(s)26.41 in spite of a big push from Deutsche Bank , which increased its target price to pound(s)32.40 to reflect the potential of the explorer 's assets in Greenland .
Jonathan Copus , analyst , said Cairn 's recent farm-in agreement with Petronas was an industry vindication of Greenland 's potential and should drive the market to consider its worth .
Among the mid caps , stockbroker Evolution Group fell 2.3 per cent to 161.2p after Alex Snow , chief executive , revealed that he had exercised options over 4.59m shares and then disposed of 3.19m of them at 163p .
However , the company explained that Mr Snow had only sold the shares to cover exercise and tax costs and that his stake in the company had actually risen .
Credit : By Neil Hume
