Tesco starts sales fightback with new voucher campaign
Promotion similar to scheme by Asda
Tesco is fighting back with a new voucher campaign to kick-start its performance , just days after the company 's chief executive admitted its pound(s)500m flagship price-cutting programme had been undermined by rivals ' coupon promotions .
Last week Tesco reported its worst domestic sales performance for decades and issued its first profit warning in 20 years , after its " Big Price Drop " failed to revive sales over the Christmas and new year trading period .
The group 's newest offer is that if shoppers spend pound(s)40 in-store this week , they will receive a pound(s)5 voucher for next week 's shop of more than pound(s)40 .
The promotion is similar to one Asda was running before Christmas , when it offered the same deal to customers if they checked their prices through its " Asda Price Guarantee " scheme .
In that scheme , Asda pledges to be 10 per cent cheaper than its rivals or it will refund the difference .
Tesco described its voucher offer as another way for customers to save money and said the " Big Price Drop " , which it launched in September , was still running .
The move comes after Philip Clarke , chief executive , blamed a ferocious fightback from rival supermarkets for the 2.3 per cent decline in Tesco 's UK sales from stores open at least a year , as its big competitors bombarded customers with vouchers and coupons .
" There was a lot of promotional couponing going on around Christmas , " Mr Clarke said when the profit warning was announced last Thursday .
" That is where we should have gone a little bit harder and we can correct that in the future . "
Asda hit back at Tesco 's move .
" While imitation is the sincerest form of flattery , Tesco 's attempt at imitation misses the point , " it said .
" Vouchers that promise lower prices instead of delivering them are nothing more than a short-term gimmick . "
It said more than half a million customers were using the Asda Price Guarantee each week .
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , said Tesco had been adversely affected not only by Asda 's vouchers but also by J Sainsbury 's pledge to match rivals on a basket of branded goods or refund the difference , as well as significant promotional activity by Tesco 's other rivals .
Shares in Tesco closed up 3 1/2 p , or 1.1 per cent , to 321p yesterday .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
