Tesco expected to deliver record Pounds 2.5bn profits with a 12 % increase COMPANIES DIARY
TUESDAY
* Debenhams , thedepartment store chain , is expected to reportinterim pre-tax profitsof about Pounds 100m when it announces preliminary results .
The retailerhas struggled in termsof sales and share priceperformance since returning to the stock market lastMay and investors will be hoping for positive signals from Rob Templeman , the chief executive .
Last month , he revealed a lacklustre set of trading figures for the 26 weeks to March 3 , with like-for- like sales down 4.5 per cent , and pledged to manage stock , cash and margins in the absence of more money going through the tills .
* Tesco is expected to deliver yet another set of record profits , up 12 per cent to Pounds 2.5bn , when it releases its annual results on sales at the Pounds 43bn mark .
City analysts believe the UK retail market , which accounts for three-quarters of the company 's turnover , to be solid .
But there are some question marks over areas of Tesco 's expanding international empire .
Merrill Lynch says in a recent note that Hungary , Thailand and South Korea are suffering from political or economic turmoil .
These markets are key countries for Tesco and , while it is not expected to have a material impact on profits , the City will want to be reassured about progress in these countries .
Other areas of interest will be the imminent opening of Tesco 's chain of convenience stores in the US and how the roll-out of Tesco Direct , its non-food catalogue and home delivery service , is shaping up
WEDNESDAY
* Signet , the jewellery retailer that operatesH .
Samuel and ErnestJones in the UK , is expected to report full-yearpre-tax profits ofabout Pounds 208m , thanks mainly to its US division , whichis recording superiorsales growth .
In the crucial trading period in thenine weeks to December30 , like-for-like sales forthe group rose 5.9 per cent , with the US - which includes the Kay chain and makes up almost three-quarters of total sales -adding 7.5 per cent , compared with 1.7 percent in the UK .
Thecompany 's shares on the London Stock Exchange have been buoyed by continued hopes that TerryBurman , the chiefexecutive , will pull off a transformational acquisition in the US .
