Tesco hit by overseas pressures
general retailesr ; South Korea curbs store opening hours ; Progress seen in stabilising UK
Tesco faces fresh headwinds at its international operations , just as chief executive Philip Clarke battles to turn round its UK business .
The supermarket group has suffered several downgrades to profit forecasts as a result of restrictions imposed on big retailers ' store opening hours in South Korea , which are expected to hit its sales and profits .
These international pressures come at a delicate time for Tesco , which issued its first profit warning in 20 years in January after the worst performance from its UK business in decades .
Now analysts are questioning its prospects overseas .
" Whereas we see steady progress in stabilising the UK , we have growing worries about the financial performance outside the core chain , largely due to factors beyond Tesco 's control , " said Clive Black at Shore Capital .
JPMorgan Cazenove and Nomura , both brokers to Tesco , have each cut their forecasts of Tesco 's pre-tax profit this year , excluding property profits , by 2 per cent to about pound(s)3.5bn - reflecting a pound(s)70m reduction in profits from Korea .
Tesco said : " Our international business contributed pound(s)1.1bn profits to Tesco last year .
We have already built market leading positions in many countries and our businesses around the world give us significant opportunities for long-term growth . "
Last month , Mr Clarke called the restrictions in Korea " not helpful for our biggest business outside of the home market " .
Mr Black noted that the group faced other pressures outside its UK heartland , including a sharp slowdown in sales growth at Fresh & Easy , its lossmaking US business .
He has cut his forecast of Tesco 's pre-tax profit excluding property profits this year by 5.6 per cent to pound(s)3.35bn , to reflect lower expectations for Korea , the US , central Europe and the UK .
At the same time , Mr Black has raised his forecast of losses at Fresh & Easy by pound(s)13m to pound(s)103.3m for this year .
With losses of pound(s)52.3m forecast for the year to February 2014 , this would take Fresh & Easy 's cumulative losses to more than pound(s)800m .
At Tesco 's annual meeting last month , Mr Clarke said he remained committed to Fresh & Easy , but acknowledged that if there were no prospect of turning it round Tesco would look at withdrawal from the US .
Tesco is poised for a shake-up of its advertising in the UK after naming Wieden + Kennedy as its new agency yesterday .
Additional reporting by Simon Rabinovitch and Simon Mundy
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
