Tesco gears up for a new year of price cutting
Fierce price cutting among Britain 's supermarkets will last well into the new year , Tesco has forecast , with shoppers likely to escape the full force of a planned increase in value added tax .
The country 's biggest retailer , which reported an unexpected slowdown in sales growth in the past three months , said yesterday it was looking closely at whether to pass on the higher rate of VAT to customers .
But Laurie McIlwee , finance director , played down the prospect of higher prices on January 1 , when the government is expected to revert VAT from 15 per cent to 17.5 per cent .
" Given the amount of promotional activity . . . and price competition that is out there , I do n't think there will be a material change in pricing in January , certainly not enough to upset consumer confidence , " he said .
Mr McIlwee warned the Treasury against raising VAT any further and extending the tax to food , which he said would hit spending on the high street .
" Just when consumers are starting to get a bit more confident , to start to indirectly tax them would not be a good thing , " he said .
Shares in Tesco tumbled 2.3 per cent to 425.45p after it reported UK sales growth from stores open at least a year of 2.8 per cent , slightly below the consensus forecast of analysts polled by Reuters .
The slowdown from 3.1 per cent growth in the three months to the end of August came even though Tesco doubled rewards under its loyalty scheme .
Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , said in October that Tesco was catching up with , and even eclipsing , rivals in UK total and like-for-like sales growth .
However , Mr McIlwee was more cautious yesterday .
" I would not say we are trending ahead .
We are well in the pack , " he said .
Industry data showed that Tesco had the lowest growth of the big four supermarkets .
Mr McIlwee defended the company 's performance , which he said reflected an end to recent increases in food prices .
Recent higher sales figures from some of Tesco 's rivals still included the effects of higher food price inflation , he said .
Competition was intense in the run-up to Christmas , with promotional activity at an " unprecedented level " .
Tesco expects its customers to make more use of Clubcard vouchers .
Sir Terry said yesterday that consumer confidence was improving , while Mr McIlwee said demand had risen for non-food items , including toys , clothing , electrical goods , music and games .
Total sales across the group rose 8.8 per cent , excluding fuel .
www.ft.com / ukview
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Retail Correspondent
