Tesco
" Is it safe ? " hissed Laurence Olivier as he drilled into Dustin Hoffman 's molar in Marathon Man .
That is the question uppermost on investors ' minds .
As its 10 per cent increase in first half profits yesterday showed , Tesco is about as safe as things come in these uncertain , paranoid times .
True , the world 's third largest retailer is not entirely defying gravity .
UK underlying sales growth of 3.7 per cent lags behind more price-orientated competitors such as Morrisons and Wal-Mart 's Asda , even if the threat from " deep " discounters such as Aldi is exaggerated .
Asda is achieving superior growth in spite of more exposure to volatile non-food products .
Tesco 's 4 per cent higher non-food sales came from a significant , unspecified , space rise- meaning sales densities fell .
Internationally , sales growth of 1 per cent from stores open at least a year is underwhelming , given the amount of space added .
Growth is also being bought with eye-watering capital expenditure - up from pound(s)1.6bn to pound(s)2.5bn in the first half .
But the overall package remains solidly attractive .
With innovations such as Tesco Value in 1992 , and its recent " Discount Brands at Tesco " range , Tesco has proved it can trade resiliently through UK downturns , and outperform in the good times .
Meanwhile , it has made a better fist of international expansion than many peers , positioning itself well to take advantage of opportunities in countries such as China .
Sir Terry Leahy , its phlegmatic chief executive , is creating a group with sufficiently diverse formats , store sizes and markets that it can withstand most setbacks .
The danger is that an economic slump induced by the banking turmoil could lure UK supermarkets into their first genuinely no-holds-barred price war since the 1970s .
Tesco 's size , and marketing and retail execution skills , should help it weather even that .
At 14 times current-year earnings , its shares hardly fall in the deep discount category .
But safety has a price .
