Tesco rating cut as it reveals recovery plan
Food & Drug retailers
Tesco has been downgraded by Moody 's , the credit rating agency , just days after the retailer unveiled a pound(s)1bn recovery plan for its core UK business .
It has also emerged that Jan Marchant , a senior executive in the group 's clothing business , has left Britain 's biggest supermarket group by sales .
Moody 's said it had cut Tesco 's long-term senior unsecured rating by one notch from A3 to Baa1 because the pound(s)1bn plan would weigh on earnings .
" It will take time for Tesco to reap the benefits of the measures it has announced in order to revive profit growth in its key UK market to levels seen in previous years , especially in the current unfavourable environment which will not support Tesco 's sales growth , " said Yasmina Serghini-Douvin , senior analyst at Moody's .
Tesco on Wednesday announced a pound(s)1bn plan for reviving its performance in the UK - which accounts for about two-thirds of sales and profits - after making its first profit warning in 20 years in January .
The plan includes investing pound(s)200m in staff this year , pound(s)200m sprucing up 430 stores and pound(s)200m bolstering its online capabilities , including increasing its click and collect network and expanding an Amazon style marketplace .
Tesco said : " Earlier this week we announced record group profits and strong international growth .
As Moody 's note , Tesco remains on a stable outlook with [ a ] solid store network and supply chain in the UK and dynamic growth overseas .
We also announced a pound(s)1bn plan to build a better Tesco here in the UK and we are focused on delivering the fantastic shopping trip our customers deserve . "
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , said : " This will be a body blow to management as the credit rating has been described as important to them .
" Such a move may lead to potentially higher borrowing costs and possibly condition future investment plans further on the -downside . "
It has also emerged that Ms Marchant , a longserving executive in the clothing business , has left the business , according to people familiar with the situation , the latest in a string of departures .
Last August , Ms Marchant moved from UK buying director to become design director for Tesco 's F&F brand in Europe , leading the design process in the UK and central Europe clothing .
Bernadette Lusher , the former Marks and Spencer executive , was appointed buying director of UK clothing , at that time .
Tesco also parted company with Richard Brasher , chief executive of its UK business , last month .
Last September , Richard Jones , head of clothing , l eft the retailer to take up a senior role at Dunnes , the privately owned Irish supermarket and clothing chain .
Philip Clarke , chief executive , has pledged to shake up the supermarket 's clothing business after saying that its non-food operations were performing " below par " .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
