Tesco struggles to spin all plates
News analysis ; Chief executive says that the overhaul in the UK is starting to work , writes Andrea Felsted
At a press briefing to unveil Tesco 's joint venture in China , Frank Lai , finance director of China Resources Enterprise , was keen to praise his new partner .
" What we can learn from Tesco : how to do the retail business the right way , " he said .
Investors in Britain 's biggest retailer may well disagree .
Over the past two years , Tesco has lurched from one crisis to another .
After a pound(s)1bn investment in the UK to counteract dismal domestic trading , and deals to exit the US and partially China , the retailer is now fighting another fire in central Europe , where profits have collapsed .
" Just when you thought they were coming to the point when all the plates were spinning without falling off , one drops and it smashes all over the place , " said Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital .
After its first profit warning in 20 years in January 2012 , Tesco set out plans to overhaul the UK , and chief executive Philip Clarke said this was beginning to work .
Sales from UK stores open at least a year were flat on the year-earlier period in the three months to the end of August , compared with a 1 per cent decline in the preceding quarter .
" The UK business is getting stronger , and we are starting to see that coming through in the numbers .
But this is not yet translating into a better overall performance because of the challenges we face internationally , " Mr Clarke said .
Indeed , trading profit in central Europe slumped 70 per cent to pound(s)55m , compared with analysts ' forecasts of about pound(s)130m .
This led some analysts to question why Tesco had not signalled the scale of the collapse earlier .
Laurie McIlwee , finance director , defended the handling of the situation .
" We have invested a lot in the second quarter in Poland , nearly pound(s)20m .
When you invest in price , quality , service and range , you do n't get the immediate uplift , " he said .
The performance in Europe - which includes the Republic of Ireland operation - was also hit by an unexpected worsening of conditions in Ireland , and a deterioration in Turkey .
After the deals in the US and China , attention is now focusing on whether Tesco could shed other international operations , in a further dismantling of the global business built by former Tesco chief executive Sir Terry Leahy .
Turkey is seen as the most obvious candidate .
But Mr McIlwee said : " We are still wedded to Turkey .
We think it 's a good opportunity . "
He also said that Tesco remained committed to central Europe , given its strong market positions in the region .
But Mr Clarke would not rule out similar ventures to that announced with CRE elsewhere across the international business .
According to Mr Black : " There is a greater probability today of Tesco exiting Turkey .
It is much less likely that they would ever consider withdrawing from central Europe .
The fact is that conversation ca n't be blindly discounted now , whereas it could have been blindly discounted in the past . "
Meanwhile , although the UK has stabilised , some investors and analysts are concerned about the impact of the discounters , and that Tesco will have to cut prices to take on Aldi , which is expanding aggressively and powering ahead .
" We never say something is forever , but [ the UK operating margin of ] 5.2 per cent is comfortable for us , " Mr Clarke said .
There was one bright spot , however .
Mr Clarke revealed that sales of Tesco 's tablet , the Hudl , which went on sale on Monday , were better than forecast , helped by a higher staff discount this week .
" We have sold 35,000 in two days .
They have sold a bit better than expected , " he said .
" So far so good .
We are going to be a bit short of stock into next week .
[ But we have ] big supplies coming over in the future .
We should be good for Christmas . "
See Lex and Lombard
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
