Tesco issue signals returning appetite for mortgage bonds
Tesco , the supermarket group , is to raise pound(s)950m ( $1.4bn ) from issuing bonds against 41 of its supermarkets in the largest form of securitised debt raising since the downturn in property and debt markets began three years ago .
This marks the first UK commercial mortgage-backed security transaction this year in a further sign that capital markets are more readily accepting forms of real-estate debt after the shocks of the past recession .
This is the fourth such deal in the past 18 months for Tesco , which has been proactive in using the capital markets to raise money from its properties .
In total , Tesco has raised about pound(s)2bn .
Moody 's , the ratings agency , gave the new 30-year bonds an A3 rating .
Goldman Sachs and HSBC are advising .
The Tesco bonds are classed as commercial mortgage backed securities ( CMBS ) , although are barely recognisable to the sort of securitised debt transactions being structured during the boom years of the property market .
The deal is more akin to corporate bond issuance given that default risk is , in effect , at a company level , in spite of it being backed by the income from the properties of the supermarket chain .
As such , the bonds are seen as very safe , and are likely to be bought by pension funds .
Bankers in the sector refer to " true " CMBS as transactions where there are a number of tranches of bonds offering degrees of risk and return .
They say there is not the investor appetite yet for such higher risk assets at the returns on offer given the uncertainty and continued rate of loan defaults in the market .
But many say it is only a matter of time before the more complex structured products return to the market .
There has been a growing number of necessary restructuring of vehicles created during the boom years of the European CMBS market , with Four Seasons , the care home chain , this week offering holders of pound(s)600m of bonds secured against its property portfolio on unusually attractive terms to encourage them to agree to an extension of its debt .
Analysts said the proposal on the two-year loan extension went way beyond previous restructurings in the terms offered , which could set a precedent for future restructurings .
There are a number of other restructuring talks , including the pound(s)535m Tahiti loan of 61 Holiday Inn hotels and the EUR1.2bn ( $1.5bn ) Fleet Street Finance 2 transaction that backs a portfolio of department stores in Germany .
Credit : By Daniel Thomas
