Tesco 's expansion in China will overtake UK footprint
Tesco is planning to develop more retail and leisure space in China over the next five years than it now operates in the UK .
The world 's third biggest retailer by sales is planning to open 80 shopping centres in China by 2016 , amounting to 40m sq ft , with Tesco hypermarkets taking a fifth of the floorspace and other retailers taking the rest .
It means that Tesco will open more floorspace in China in five years than it has done over eight decades in the UK where it has a footprint of 33m sq ft.
The aggressive Chinese expansion comes in spite of a difficult year for the retailer 's other international operations , including in the US .
The central European businesses , bar Poland , suffered falls in profits during the recession .
In the UK , Tesco was back on track after a difficult start to 2009 .
Sir Terry Leahy , chief executive , said Tesco 's efforts to woo consumers with extra Clubcard points and the credit crunch " discounter " range had paid off .
" I am pleased we have been able to improve relative performance , we have got back in the lead , " he said , as UK sales rose 4.2 per cent to pound(s)42bn for the year ending February 27 .
Tesco said it would add 2.4m sq ft of space , with plans for 181 new Tesco Express stores and 26 more Tesco Extras .
Reporting group sales up 6 per cent to pound(s)57bn over the year , with pre-tax profits up 9 per cent at pound(s)3.2bn , Sir Terry said Asia was a " major engine of growth of the group " .
Tesco will invest pound(s)2bn in China over the next five years but would not say how much of the pound(s)1.5bn of capital spending overseas in this financial year would be directed into China .
" The greatest surprise from Tesco 's results was the pace and magnitude of its development plans in China , " said Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital .
He predicted Tesco would dip into a loss of about pound(s)25m in China after a broadly break-even performance .
The Asian region overall was the star performer , with sales up by a fifth to pound(s)9.01bn and profits up 24 per cent to pound(s)440m .
In Central Europe , sales fell 0.7 per cent to pound(s)10bn , with trading profit off 4 per cent to pound(s)474m .
In the US the losses ran to pound(s)165m for the year .
Group net debt was lower than expected , thanks to property disposals and working capital inflows , at pound(s)7.9bn , against guidance of pound(s)8.5bn.
Lex , Page 18 Back on front foot , Page 21 www.ft.com / ukview
Credit : By Elizabeth Rigby , Consumer Industries Editor
