Tesco chief issues US ultimatum
Fresh & Easy business put on notice by Clarke ; Retailer reports 12 % fall in pre-tax profit
Philip Clarke , chief executive of Tesco , issued an ultimatum to Fresh & Easy , its struggling US business , as he unveiled the retailer 's first fall in pre-tax profits for almost 20 years .
Mr Clarke , who also reported Tesco 's first increase in under-lying UK sales for almost two years , said Fresh & Easy needed to " persuade " him it had a future with the group .
He said he would cut capital expenditure in the US to " nearly nothing " .
It is estimated the US business has already sucked in almost pound(s)1bn of capital .
Mr Clarke took the same approach to Tesco 's Japanese business before he decided to sell it .
Tesco will open only a " handful " of stores in the US .
Instead , it would focus on generating profits from its existing stores .
" I 'm very focused on making sure that Fresh & Easy delivers , " he said .
" When I focus , you know what that means .
It means I expect performance . "
He said Fresh & Easy had " stumbled " in the first half , disappointing with losses of pound(s)74m , broadly the same as last year .
Mr Clarke 's comments came as a pound(s)1bn investment to turn round Tesco 's UK business , plus a decline in international earnings , cut group pre-tax profits by 12 per cent to pound(s)1.66bn in the six months to August 25 , the first fall for 18 years .
Sales rose 1.6 per cent to pound(s)32.3bn.
However , Mr Clarke was able to point to some improvement in the UK , which in January was the source of the group 's first profit warning in 20 years . .
Sales from UK stores open at least a year rose 0.1 per cent in the second quarter , excluding fuel and value added tax , against a 1.5 per cent decline in the first quarter and a 2.3 per cent fall over the crucial Christmas and New Year period .
However , this was overshadowed by J Sainsbury , which reported better than expected like-for-like sales growth of 1.9 per cent , excluding fuel and VAT .
Mr Clarke said of Tesco 's UK sales performance : " The signs are encouraging .
But we have a long way to go . "
Tesco was hit by falling earnings in the UK , Europe and Asia , after regulatory changes in South Korea , its biggest business outside its home market .
Some analysts continued to trim their earnings estimates , with Shore Capital 's forecast that full-year pre-tax profits excluding property would fall by up to pound(s)150m to pound(s)3.15bn.
One top-20 shareholder said : " [ Tesco 's ] engines for growth are misfiring , and their core business continues to be under competitive pressure . "
Shares fell 2.6 per cent to 327.95p.
Lex , Page 18 Lombard , Page 20 Tesco upbeat , Page 25
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
