Tesco forecasts UK sales rebound
general retailers
Tesco , Britain 's biggest supermarket chain by market share , is expected to move back into growth in its home market , when it reports sales figures this Tuesday , providing an early boost to new chief executive Philip Clarke .
JPMorgan Cazenove , joint broker to Tesco , forecasts sales growth from UK stores open at least a year , excluding fuel and VAT , of 0.5-0.6 per cent in the 13 weeks to May 28 .
This is an improvement on the final quarter of the 2010-2011 financial year , when like-for-like sales fell by 0.7 per cent .
Supermarkets enjoyed a bounce in trade in April , as sales were lifted by unusually warm weather , a string of bank holidays and the Royal Wedding .
According to Kantar Worldpanel , the consumer research group , the UK grocery market grew by 7.8 per cent in the four weeks to May 15 .
Tesco was the fastest growing of the big four supermarkets during the period , expanding sales by 10.5 per cent .
However , retailers and analysts suggest that trading had returned to a more subdued level in May .
Mr Clarke said on the sidelines of an industry conference last week that May was " very much quieter " and that conditions had returned to a " more normal level " after a " terrific " April .
Clive Black , analyst at Shore Capital , said : " Like the Duke of York - he took the guys up to the top of the hill , and he brought them down again - trading in May has been pretty subdued again .
" It is probably better than it was in March , but still materially lower than it was in April . "
J Sainsbury is also due to report its first-quarter sales on Wednesday .
Mr Black forecasts like-for-like sales growth of 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent , excluding fuel but including VAT , also an improvement on the 1 per cent growth in the 10 weeks to March 19 .
VAT tends to account for about 0.8 percentage points .
Sainsbury has also been extending a number of stores , which could flatter its sales figures .
The supermarkets are expected to remain cautious given the likely slowdown in May , and continued pressure on the high street .
One analyst suggested that with food prices still rising , volumes remained negative across the industry .
Meanwhile , conditions remain tough when it comes to sales of non-food items , such as electricals .
Last week , Home Retail raised fresh alarm over the state of the high street , with sales from Argos stores open at least a year down almost 10 per cent in the 13 weeks to May 28 .
" Trade has been poor in the last month , " said one retail executive .
" Everyone has had a tough time , whether it 's the supermarkets or the department stores .
Everyone is finding recent trading difficult . "
Meanwhile , supermarkets ' sales are being stretched more thinly because of a dash to open new stores across the UK .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
