Tesco boost a diversion from predicted bad news
Tesco 's pound(s)1bn recovery plan for its UK business has been given a boost just a day before it releases what some analysts expect to be a disappointing trading update .
According to industry data from Kantar Worldpanel , the consumer research group , Tesco experienced stronger than expected sales growth over the past four weeks .
In the four weeks to November 25 , sales through Tesco 's tills rose 2.7 per cent year on year , ahead of the market at 2.5 per cent , and making it the fastest growing of the so-called big four supermarkets .
Tesco 's grocery sales rose 5.2 per cent in the four weeks to November 25 , according to Kantar , compared with the market at 3.1 per cent , indicating that the retailer 's performance is being dragged down by sales of non-food items .
The brighter picture comes ahead of today 's third-quarter update , when it is forecast to report flat to slightly negative sales growth for the three months to the end of November .
This is a slowdown from the second quarter , when Tesco had its first rise in UK like-for-like sales for two years , up 0.1 per cent in the three months to the end of August .
Analysts at Deutsche Bank , joint broker to Tesco , forecast a 0.8 per cent decline in Tesco 's UK like-for-like sales in the third quarter , driven mostly by weakness in non-food , while Shore Capital forecasts flat sales to a 1 per cent decline .
However , Dave McCarthy , analyst at Investec Securities , said it was possible Tesco 's sales could be better than forecast , as recent trading will have been " flattered by the timing and nature of promotions " .
Philip Clarke , chief executive of Tesco , is battling to turn round the UK business as it faces the twin pressures of weak consumers and nimbler rivals .
Tesco is also facing headwinds from overseas , with like-for-like sales in its lossmaking US business forecast to rise by 4-5 per cent , according to Shore Capital .
This would be only marginally ahead of the 3.6 per cent increase in the first quarter , regarded as disappointing by the market .
The lack of momentum in US trading could increase calls among some investors for Mr Clarke to rethink the US venture .
While Tesco experienced better trading in the past four weeks , sales growth slowed at J Sainsbury , from 5.3 per cent in October to 1.4 per cent in November .
Sainsbury 's grocery sales rose by 1 per cent .
Sainsbury declined to comment on the Kantar data but it is thought to have been affected by promotions at rivals as well as tough comparisons with the year-earlier period .
Wm Morrison sales fell 1.7 per cent in November , according to Kantar .
It declined to comment , but is thought to have been affected by lack of an online business and having a fledgling convenience arm .
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
