The waiting game pays off for Vodafone
The waiting game is finally over .
Seven years after Vodafone last received a dividend from Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile phone operator , the UK telecoms group will get a new pay-out in 2012 .
And it is not a small dividend .
Vodafone , which has a 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , its joint venture with Verizon Communications , will get a $4.5bn ( pound(s)2.7bn ) pay-out from the US mobile operator in January .
Vodafone will respond by paying a pound(s)2bn special dividend to its shareholders in February .
The resumption of cash distributions by Verizon Wireless is a coup for Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , and Sir John Bond , the outgoing chairman .
They faced down pressure from some shareholders for the UK group to sell its Verizon Wireless stake , instead insisting on playing a waiting game .
Why were Mr Colao and Sir John so confident that their patience would be rewarded ?
And why did Verizon Wireless ' dividend payments stop in 2005 ?
The answers can be found in how the balance of power inside Verizon Wireless has shifted over the years between its two shareholders .
The joint venture 's parents have had a tempestuous relationship , but , for the moment at least , Vodafone has come out on top .
The $4.5bn payment by Verizon Wireless should increase Vodafone 's free cash flow by at least 30 per cent in 2011-12 .
The only real surprise in the announcement late on Thursday that Verizon Wireless would pay a $10bn dividend to its parents in 2012 was the timing .
Most investors were expecting a statement at the end of this year , rather than now , but they had long been prepared for a resumption of cash distributions .
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group which owns 55 per cent of Verizon Wireless , has been hinting since the middle of last year that the mobile operator would once again pay dividends .
This is because Verizon Communications ' $5.4bn annual dividend could have to be cut unless it starts to tap Verizon Wireless ' cash , according to Robin Bienenstock , analyst at Bernstein .
She estimated Verizon Communications ' fixed-line phone business generated little or no cash , and therefore she argued it had become a necessity for the US group to obtain dividends from Verizon Wireless .
Vodafone never wanted Verizon Wireless ' dividends to stop in 2005 , but , as the minority shareholder , it had no say over the matter .
Verizon Communications decided six years ago that the cash generated by Verizon Wireless should be used to pay down its debt .
However , many analysts saw the halt to the mobile operator 's dividend payments as an attempt to squeeze Vodafone out of Verizon Wireless .
Verizon Wireless has always been an uneasy marriage of convenience between Verizon Communications and Vodafone .
Their joint venture was formed in 2000 when their predecessor companies pooled their US mobile assets to create an operator with national scale , but it has been dogged by tensions .
In 2006 , Vodafone rejected a bid by Verizon Communications to buy the UK group 's Verizon Wireless stake .
Then in 2007 , Vodafone briefly considered the case for buying Verizon Communications .
This disclosure brought a sharp riposte from Ivan Seidenberg , Verizon Communications ' chairman and chief executive , who told the Financial Times in 2008 : " In the long term , my view is that we 're the hunter .
That 's the way I see it , and I 'm trying to develop a new generation of hunters . "
This new generation will take centre stage next month when Lowell McAdam will replace Mr Seidenberg as Verizon Communications ' chief executive .
Mr McAdam , currently chief operating officer , and Mr Colao have a better working relationship than Mr Seidenberg and Arun Sarin , the UK group 's former top manager .
" I think that Vittorio 's and my goal over the past 18 months has really been to try and turn the temperature down a little bit and to improve the bottom line of the relationship , " said Mr McAdam last week .
Mr McAdam and Mr Colao are members of the Verizon Wireless board , which at a meeting on Thursday agreed the $10bn dividend payment .
Analysts highlighted how the Verizon Wireless board had only approved a one-off dividend for 2012 , but Vodafone hopes the US mobile operator 's cash distributions will become a recurring , annual event , because of Verizon Communications ' need to maintain its own pay-out to shareholders .
The $10bn will be divided between the mobile operator 's parents based on the size of their shareholdings .
Verizon Communications will therefore get $5.5bn.
Vodafone is returning 70 per cent of its $4.5bn to shareholders via its special dividend , and the remainder will be used to reduce the UK group 's net debt .
If Verizon Wireless ' dividends do continue beyond 2012 , Vodafone could use some of the cash for acquisitions .
It is interested in buying rivals in some of its existing markets , including those in Europe and India .
Since last September , Mr Colao has sold Vodafone 's minority stakes in Chinese , Japanese , French and Polish mobile operators , because he wants to focus on the UK group 's controlled assets .
But a sale of Vodafone 's Verizon Wireless stake was always going to be more difficult , partly because the US mobile operator 's parents have been unable to agree on their joint venture 's valuation .
Vodafone this week said the value of its Verizon Wireless stake had increased from $20bn in 2001 to $65bn-$70bn in 2011 , and any sale could incur a large capital gains tax bill .
Verizon Communications and Vodafone now seem keen to reset their relationship .
After years of sparring , the two groups are getting closer , notably by collaborating on serving their large business customers .
Mr McAdam and Mr Colao have both recently played down the idea of a merger between Verizon Communications and Vodafone .
But one investor who knows the two groups said a merger was possible in the medium to long term .
" I would be very surprised if we are still in the current situation in 10 years ' time , " said the investor .
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London and Paul Taylor in New York
