Threat of EU action knocks Vodafone
Vodafone 's shares fell almost 4 per cent yesterday after claims that regulators were preparing to take action that would cut the UK mobile group 's European core earnings by 11 per cent .
Analysts at Morgan Stanley downgraded their recommendation on Vodafone 's shares from " buy " to " sell " after concluding that intervention by the European Commission could reduce core profits at Vodafone 's European mobile businesses by Pounds 900m between 2009 and 2012 .
Meanwhile , Vodafone also had a further setback in its efforts to secure control of Vodacom , South Africa 's leading mobile operator .
Telkom , South Africa 's fixed-line phone company , signalled it would not consider selling its 50 per cent stake in Vodacom to Vodafone " without a compelling strategic rationale " .
Vodafone owns the remainder of Vodacom .
Nick Delfas , analyst at Morgan Stanley , published a research note predicting that Viviane Reding , European commissioner for telecoms , could take action that would cut Vodafone 's earnings .
Its shares closed down 6.1p at 150.9p.
Mr Delfas highlighted Ms Reding 's interest in the case for reducing termination rates - charges that mobile and fixed-line phone operators impose on each other when connecting calls to their networks .
Mobile operators secure much revenue from fixed-line companies from termination rates because regulators currently allow the European wireless phone groups to , on average , charge almost nine times more than their wired rivals for connecting calls .
Mr Delfas said Ms Reding , and national telecoms regulators , could insist on mobile termination rates coming down from an average of 9.67 cents a minute in 2007 to 2.5 cents by 2012 .
He estimated progressive cuts between 2009 and 2012 would cut Vodafone 's European earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation by 11 per cent , or Pounds 900m .
That would equate to an 8 per cent cut in the group 's ebitda .
He also predicted cuts in termination rates could start a price war .
Mr Delfas said the combined impact of rate cuts and a price war could reduce a typical large mobile operator 's European cash flow by 39 per cent between 2009-12 .
He accused analysts and investors of ignoring Ms Reding 's interest in termination rates , adding some had made the same mistake prior to her law that last year forced cuts in the cost of making mobile phone calls while abroad .
Ms Reding claims termination rates are de facto subsidies for the European mobile industry and wants the charges to reflect the true costs of connecting calls to networks .
Terence Sinclair , analyst at Citi , used a research note to dispute Morgan Stanley 's analysis , saying the concerns were " misplaced " .
He estimated that a 20 per cent fall in mobile termination rates would reduce Vodafone 's group earnings per share by less than 2 per cent .
Meanwhile , Telkom said it had rejected an offer by Oger Telecom that would have made the Middle East group its largest shareholder .
The offer was dependent on Telkom selling its stake in Vodacom to Vodafone .
In November Telkom ended talks with MTN about selling its fixed-line phone business to the African mobile operator .
That deal was linked to Telkom selling its Vodacom stake to Vodafone .
Vodafone declined to comment .
Ms Reding 's representative did not return calls .
