Two Tesco directors paid pound(s)3m at exit
food & drug retailers ; Rewards for Mason and Brasher ; Others saw bonuses axed as profits fell
Tesco revealed that it paid pound(s)3m to two outgoing directors as executives lost out on their bonuses after the worst drop in profits in the company 's history .
Britain 's biggest retailer also said in its annual report yesterday that it had lowered the earnings and return on capital targets for long-term incentive plans this year , and would also change some of the criteria for the payment of annual bonuses .
But no bonus would be payable unless there was profit growth .
Tesco paid Tim Mason , the former head of its US business , with whom it parted company in December , pound(s)1.68m in " liquidated damages " .
Richard Brasher , who resigned as chief executive of Tesco 's UK business in March 2012 , was paid pound(s)1.3m in compensation for loss of office .
Mr Mason , who has since joined private equity group Sun European Partners , was also paid salary of pound(s)691,000 , and benefits of pound(s)400,000 , taking his total remuneration to pound(s)2.77m.
Mr Brasher received no other payments .
Mr Mason still has about 1.1m shares , worth about pound(s)4m , and a pension pot of pound(s)10.4m , while Mr Brasher has shares worth about pound(s)4.8m and a pound(s)6.8m pension pot .
Tesco said all their unvested long-term incentive awards would lapse .
The annual report confirmed that executive directors , including chief executive Philip Clarke and finance director Laurie McIlwee , were not paid an annual bonus because profit targets were not met .
Shares and options granted in 2010 would also lapse as return on capital and earnings targets were not met .
Some 5,000 top managers in the business will also not get an annual bonus , although UK staff will share pound(s)56m , up to a maximum of pound(s)1,600 each , in a share scheme , vesting after three years .
The payout is about half last year 's level .
" Our financial performance fell short of where we wanted it to be , " said Stuart Chambers , chairman of Tesco 's remuneration committee , after pre-tax profit halved following a series of one-off charges .
Tesco said it would lower the earnings per share target range and broaden the return on capital employed range for its long-term incentive plans this year .
But it insisted it was not making the performance criteria easier
Additional reporting by Chris Tighe
Credit : By Andrea Felsted , Senior Retail Correspondent
