UBS lowers forecasts on ' wrong shape ' Barclays
london
Barclays was a focus on Friday as the FTSE 100 slipped to its third straight decline .
Shares in Barclays lost 2.9 per cent to 284 1/2 p after UBS cut earnings forecasts by as much as a fifth to reflect a tough third quarter for investment banks .
UBS argued that Barclays was " the wrong shape " following its purchase in 2008 of Lehman Brothers ' US business .
However , new chief executive Bob Diamond was the " ideal candidate " to restore balance .
" Only the man who built BarCap into such a formidable force could lead a shift back towards retail / commercial banking without risking political strife between Barclays ' two core divisions , " analyst John-Paul Crutchley said .
Acquisitions were likely to be on Barclays ' agenda and could be funded by the sale of its African assets , UBS argued .
Standard Chartered would be a likely bidder for the African operations if , as expected , HSBC bought South Africa 's Nedbank , it said .
UBS also ran the numbers on two hypothetical deals : a bid for Capital One and a merger with Citigroup .
Both options would reduce reliance on capital markets and help rebalance the group by geography , it concluded .
Standard Chartered and HSBC were both down 0.4 per cent to pound(s)19 and 672 3/4 p respectively as the wider market drifted following an expiry of options and futures contracts .
The expiry had pulled the FTSE 100 through the 5,600 level in mid-morning , though gains soon evaporated .
The index closed at 5,508.45 , down 0.6 per cent or 31.69 points , leaving it barely changed for the week .
Invensys was among Friday 's top gainers , 3.2 per cent higher at 285 3/4 p , on news of its first move into China through a partnership with train maker CSR Times Electric .
" Prior to this deal , Invensys has focused its resources on projects outside China , " said JPMorgan Cazenove .
" Going forward this agreement is likely to enable Invensys to address the large Chinese market without redirecting significant resources from other growth regions such as Latin America . "
Aggreko , the generator hire group , was up 4.1 per cent to pound(s)16.13 as Credit Suisse started coverage with a pound(s)16.40 target price .
" Our bear case scenario is in line with current consensus while our bull case suggests that 2012 consensus could be 45 per cent too low , " said the broker , though with shares having doubled inside 12 months it applied a " neutral " rating .
J Sainsbury gained 1.7 per cent to 385 1/2 p after UBS added the supermarket to its " buy " list based on expansion potential and non-food growth lifting profit margins .
UBS set a 450p target price on the stock .
Better-than-expected results overnight from Oracle helped buoy the software sector , with Autonomy taking on 1.1 per cent to pound(s)18.33.
Drugmaker Shire dropped 3 per cent to pound(s)14.68 amid renewed rumours that it could bid for Actelion , the Swiss maker of Gaucher disease treatments .
Sector watchers played down the talk and pointed instead to a note from PiperJaffray advising clients to take profits in Shire shares .
Among the mid-caps , insulation fitter Eaga gained 7.5 per cent to 115 1/2 p after UK energy minister Chris Huhne said the government remained committed to the Warm Front programme .
The fuel poverty scheme is up for renewal in March next year and provides around half Eaga 's revenues .
MoneySupermarket closed down 0.5 per cent at 83 1/2 p , having traded as high as 92 1/2 p in morning trade following gossip that it may be a target for private equity or a rival website operator .
Dealers said the early move was more likely to reflect demand following a management roadshow for US investors .
Carphone Warehouse faded 1.2 per cent to 239 1/4 p after Charles Dunstone , its founder , sold 15m shares .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
