Unilever likely to shed more assets
Unilever is expected to make further disposals of underperforming assets following the sale of its Brazilian margarine brands and some factory machinery to Perdigao , the South American food company , for about Pounds 20m .
The performance of the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group has been gradually improving under the stewardship of chief executive Patrick Cescau , with the company recently reporting a 5.7 per cent rise in under-lying first-quarter sales against a targeted 3-5 per cent , and a 0.4 percentage point rise in profit margins .
However , Unilever remains under pressure from investors to improve its market share and to increase profit margins from last year 's 13.6 per cent .
Analysts believe the group is likely to pursue more asset sales , with some suggesting it may dispose of its laundry detergent brands in the US and Europe , including Omo , Persil , Whisk and All .
UBS has estimated a sale of Unilever 's " developed world detergents " - to either a private equity or a trade buyer such as Henkel - could be worth some Euros 3bn ( Pounds 2bn ) .
Although Unilever has a strong laundry detergents business in emerging markets , rival Procter & Gamble dominates the market in the US .
P&G is also the leader in Europe , followed by Henkel and Unilever .
Analysts believe P&G has been taking market share from Unilever in the US and western Europe .
Unilever owns three local margarine brands in Brazil - Doriana , Delicata and Claybom - as well as its global Becel brand .
With sales of the local brands in decline , and Unilever holding the number three position in the margarine market , the company decided the best option for the local brands was to sell them .
Perdigao sells chilled and frozen foods such as pizzas , pastas and meats and exports to more than 100 countries .
Unilever will keep the Becel brand , through which it sells low- cholesterol margarines , and has formed a joint venture with Perdigao to manage it .
Unilever will also license the brand to Perdigao for use on foods other than margarine .
Unilever said the joint venture would also help it identify " new business opportunities . "
