Unilever chief warns of slow recovery
food producers
Paul Polman , Unilever chief executive , warned of a " protracted " global economic recovery and price deflation as the maker of Lipton tea and Sunsilk shampoo reported strong third-quarter results .
Mr Polman has won the confidence of investors and analysts this year by delivering steady sales and volume growth , leading to a 36 per cent rise in Unilever 's stock price over the past six months - more than double the rise in the FTSE 100 .
Yesterday , Mr Polman proved that his changes - which include turning round underperforming brands and stepping up the pace of innovation - were making a difference at Unilever as the company beat analysts ' expectations with underlying sales growth of 3.4 per cent and volume growth of 3.6 per cent .
James Edwardes Jones , analyst at Execution , said : " Excellent third-quarter results indicate Unilever is doing what it said it would do . "
Analysts were heartened to see volume and sales growth , which was delivered in all regions , was not achieved by cutbacks in marketing spending , with Unilever increasing spending on advertising and promotions by 130bp .
But Unilever 's shares fell 1.9 per cent to pound(s)17.94 in afternoon trading after it said it had been reducing prices .
Mr Polman cautioned further declines in pricing in the fourth quarter would " take a bit of the shine off our organic growth . "
Jim Lawrence , Unilever 's chief financial officer , said underlying prices would rise just 1.5 per cent in the full year ( compared with a 7.2 per cent increase last year ) , with prices falling between 2 and 3 per cent in the fourth quarter .
Analysts said they were not worried by falling prices as long as the company 's volumes continued to improve .
Mr Polman also warned of " sluggish market conditions " , noting that consumer confidence in the US had dropped to an eight-month low .
" Employment and consumer confidence are the key drivers of long-term market growth , and unfortunately , unemployment continues to increase in many places and consumer confidence is still low . "
Mr Polman said Unilever was coming up with " bigger and better innovations " and rolling them out faster around the world .
He added that while he expected " consistent " growth from Europe and North America , " increasingly the developing and emerging countries will be the engine for our growth . "
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins in London
