Unilever in $5.4bn deal over India unit
Plan to increase HUL stake to 75 % ; Largest acquisition in country 's sector
Unilever , the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods group , plans to spend up to $5.4bn to buy a further slice of Hindustan Unilever , marking the latest swoop by a multinational on an Indian-listed subsidiary and the largest ever acquisition in the country 's consumer goods sector .
The news drove HUL 's share price up 17.4 per cent to Rs584 ( $10.8 ) , just shy of Unilever 's Rs600 a share offer .
The maker of Dove shampoo and Flora margarine currently holds 52.5 per cent of HUL and wants to top that up to 75 per cent , the maximum allowed under Indian regulations .
If successful , the bid would see Unilever tighten its grip on a company whose century-old ownership structure dates to the British Raj and snatch a bigger slice of India 's superior growth rates .
Unilever is offering a generous 36 times next year 's consensus forecast earnings , or a 26 per cent premium on HUL 's undisturbed share price .
That is roughly in line with similar deals carried out by multinationals , most recently drugmaker GlaxoSmith-Kline which late last year lifted its 43.2 per cent stake in its pivotal Indian division , GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare , to 75 per cent .
However , it may not be enough to win its prize .
Aberdeen Asset Management , one of the biggest investors in HUL , with roughly 4 per cent , said the price was not as attractive as first appeared .
" The share price has been very weak since they announced royalty hikes a couple of months back , " said Adrian Lim , Singapore-based senior investment manager at Aberdeen .
On a long-term view , he added : " Consumer staples are in an expansionary phase and so we are happy to sit out as shareholders for the next five , 10 years . "
The news came a day after HUL , India 's largest consumer goods company , announced a better-than- expected 15 per cent rise in first quarter net profit .
Unilever does not report quarterly profits , but that is almost double last year 's net profit growth of 7 per cent .
Paul Polman , Unilever 's chief executive , said the decision to increase the stake was part of a strategic focus on emerging markets .
" The long heritage and great brands of Hindustan Unilever , and the significant growth potential of a country of 1.3bn people , makes India a strategic long-term priority for the business . "
He indicated that he expected significant take-up of the open offer , which is expected to begin in June , and which he called " a liquidity opportunity at what we believe to be an attractive premium for existing shareholders " .
Bankers , who see further opportunities for more stake-raising in Indian listed subsidiaries - by companies such as Colgate-Palmolive , Procter & Gamble , Nestle and Castrol - concurred .
" The stars are aligned , " said one .
Stars include deflated equity prices , a weaker rupee and growing markets .
Another added that such deals were a less risky way of buying emerging market growth , which required no due diligence , and was " right under their noses " .
Many multinationals have similar listed units in other parts of Asia and Africa , often a colonial legacy .
See Lex
Credit : By Amy Kazmin in New Delhi and Louise Lucas in London
