Unilever gains as recovery continues
Unilever 's shares rose nearly 5 per cent yesterday after the company showed it was on the path to sustained growth by delivering its third consecutive quarter of profit margin improvement .
Unilever , the maker of Knorr soups and Dove shampoo , said underlying sales grew 4.5 per cent in the third quarter , and operating margins rose 0.2 percentage points to 13.7 per cent after restructuring costs .
Unilever 's shares closed up 4.7 per cent , or 77p , at Pounds 17.02.
The company attributed the healthy sales growth to a strong performance in emerg- ing markets , which account for 44 per cent of total sales .
Unilever , which traditionally makes just under two- thirds of its sales in Asia and Africa from home and personal care products , said it had also been gaining market share in food products .
It stressed that all product categories , with the exception of ice cream , were showing sales and profit growth .
Total sales of ice cream fell Euros 70m ( Dollars 101.3m ) in the third quarter compared with a year earlier , with Unilever blaming the decline on a cool European summer .
It indicated that some foods were having trouble finding acceptance in different markets .
It said its Latin American soya drink Adez , launched in the UK last year , was having " difficulties " and was not meeting expectations .
Unilever 's management said that while the company was on track to achieve its goal of reaching the " upper end " of 3-5 per cent organic sales growth over the full year , it was not completely satisfied with the group 's performance .
Jim Lawrence , Unilever 's chief financial officer , said : " We are not yet where we want to be . "
Analysts said that changes put in place by Patrick Cescau , Unilever 's chief executive , were paying off , with the group showing better innovation , and more consistent branding .
John Parker , analyst at Deutsche Bank , said : " It 's a rehabilitation which is coming through . "
Martin Deboo , analyst at Investec , said : " They 're turning around their commercial capabilities . "
Analysts were impressed that Unilever had managed to increase profit margins in the face of higher commodity costs , including mineral oil , which Unilever uses in its home and personal care products .
Unilever warned that it expected commodity costs to keep increasing in the fourth quarter , but said it had offset the higher costs by raising prices as well as saving money through its restructuring programmes , which have included shutting factories .
Analysts expressed concern at Unilever 's decision to cut back on advertising spending .
Advertising and promotions as a percentage of sales fell 0.4 percentage points .
