Unilever disappoints as margins decline
Unilever investors yesterday raised concerns about the company 's ability to generate healthy profits , as the Anglo-Dutch consumer goods manufacturer reported a sharp decline in second-quarter operating margins .
The shares slid 75 pence , or 5.8 per cent , to Pounds 12.14 after the maker of Dove soap and Sunsilk shampoo surprised analysts with a 1 point drop in underlying margins to 14.6 per cent .
Julian Hardwick , analyst at ABN Amro , said : " The margin performance was very disappointing . "
Unilever blamed the fall on increased spending on advertising and promotions in its emerging markets and personal care businesses , as well as higher commodity costs .
Unilever 's sales are growing faster in Asia and Africa than in the Americas or Europe .
Analysts were happier with Unilever 's top line growth .
Underlying sales rose 3.9 per cent in the quarter , while revenues rose 3 per cent to Euros 10.2bn ( Pounds 7bn ) .
Patrick Cescau , chief executive , said that while Unilever 's competitors were growing faster , they were no longer growing at the company 's expense , as they have done in the past .
" One year ago we were growing at zero ; today we are growing at 3.9 per cent .
I call that progress . "
Unilever 's competitor Procter & Gamble reported much stronger earnings this week .
P&G 's organic sales growth rose 8 per cent in the second quarter , beating its own forecast of 4 to 6 per cent , while Danone produced growth of 8.9 per cent .
Analysts said that the mixed results revived the long-term question of whether Unilever could increase sales and operating margins simultaneously .
Unilever is targeting operating margins of more than 15 per cent by 2010 .
This is below the 16 per cent target Unilever set itself in its " Path to Growth " strategy , which ended in 2004 and failed to produce desired sales growth of between 5 and 6 per cent .
Mr Cescau is targeting sales growth of between 3 and 5 per cent .
He became Unilever 's sole chief executive a year ago , and investors back him , but believe the board is hampering Unilever 's ability to act quickly .
" It is not a fast enough board for a fast moving consumer goods company , " said one big investor .
Unilever is searching for new non-executive chairman , with its current chairman Antony Burgmans due to retire by the annual meeting next year .
The company said that it would strengthen its cost-cutting programme to try and improve profit margins .
It has already been increasing prices .
