Unilever looks to clean up in Alberto Culver buy
personal goods ; News analysis ; The deal places the group firmly in a fast-growing sector , writes John O'Doherty
Unilever 's swoop on Alberto Culver was predominantly greeted with enthusiasm by analysts and investors , with most seeing it as a shrewd move into the fastest-growing sector of the consumer goods industry .
There was consensus about the price tag , with most analysts regarding the deal as fully priced but not excessively so .
Assuming earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation for 2010 of $259m ( pound(s)163m ) and the small amount of cash held by Alberto Culver , the $3.7bn price tag will mean an enterprise value to ebitda multiple of 14 times .
Clive Black , an analyst at Shore Capital , says : " The valuations for consumer staples , and particularly branded consumer staples , have remained resilient over the past two or three years .
You could n't say there has been a collapse or a contraction of multiples . "
Andrew Wood of Sanford Bernstein says the multiple was well below the average of 17 times ebitda paid for other M&A deals in the health and personal care sector over the past decade .
It compares favourably with the most recent acquisition in personal care products , that of Reckitt Benckiser taking over SSL International , the maker of Durex condoms and Scholl footcare , in July this year for pound(s)1.5bn.
That deal , albeit for a different business , had a multiple of 18 .
Operationally , the deal is attractive to Unilever for giving the group extra fire-power in the health and personal care category .
Personal care is a higher-margin business than Unilever 's other product categories .
The group 's operating margins in the personal care category , which includes haircare , were 15.5 per cent last year , above the group margin of 12.6 per cent .
Personal care is also faster-growing .
In the most recent quarter , Unilever 's sales of health personal care goods rose 7.8 per cent to EUR3.6bn ( pound(s)3bn ) , compared with growth of only 3.5 per cent for ice-cream and beverages , and 0.5 per cent for savoury foods , dressings and spreads .
A similar dynamic is at work at Unilever 's rival Reckitt Benckiser , the maker of Cillit Bang cleaner and Finish dishwasher powder , where health and personal care is growing at 14 per cent a year , compared with 8 per cent growth across the whole business .
The deal will also give Unilever more scale in haircare , where it has previously been underweight .
Unilever has market share in the haircare category of about 7 per cent in both the US and the UK , and the Alberto Culver acquisition will double its market share in both countries .
This will give it greater strength in negotiating with retailers and allow it to compete more effectively with rivals such as L'Oreal and Procter & Gamble , which occupy the top two positions in US haircare .
The Alberto Culver portfolio also has an added benefit in helping Unilever to occupy a broader range of price points .
The V05 brand will round out Unilever 's product offering in the lower end of the market , while TRESemme and Nexxus will compete at the premium end .
Where this leaves Unilever 's plans for emerging markets growth is less clear .
Paul Polman , chief executive , has set a long-term target of changing the revenue mix in the group 's business from its 50-50 developed markets / developing markets split to a 30-70 split , meaning it will need a large increase in sales to the developing world in the coming years .
But while Alberto Culver has some sales in Argentina and Mexico , it is predominantly based in North America , where it makes 65 per cent of its sales , with the UK accounting for another 15 per cent .
In total , developing markets account for only 10 per cent of Alberto Culver 's turnover .
The personal care business of Sara Lee , acquired last year , was equally weighted toward developed markets , with most of its sales in western Europe , comprising brands such as Radox and Brylcreem .
However , it is still possible for Unilever to use its existing global distribution network to promote these newly acquired brands in the developing world .
This would mean the group could avoid significant acquisitions in the developing world and rely instead on a continuation of the existing trends of faster growth in emerging markets to achieve the desired revenue mix .
In the most recent quarter , underlying sales at Unilever in western Europe fell 2 per cent to EUR1.3bn.
However , in Asia , Africa and central and eastern Europe , sales rose 8 per cent , to pound(s)4.7bn.
" This is not an emerging market play but a scale issue to compete on more equal terms with P&G in the mature US and UK markets , " says one analyst .
Additional reporting by Louise Lucas
Lex , Page 16
Credit : By John O'Doherty
