Unilever investors welcome surprise FOOD PRODUCERS
Increased marketing investment in ice-cream , shampoos and deodorants led to higher third-quarter sales at Unilever , whose underlying revenue growth of 4.8 per cent surpassed expectations .
Analysts were happy to see an improvement on last quarter 's sales growth of 3.9 per cent .
John McMillin , of Prudential Securities , said : " Clearly this is a step in the right direction . "
Unilever surprised investors by announcing a one-off Euros 750m ( Pounds 502m ) dividend , which replaces a planned Euros 500m share buy-back , to be paid in December .
Shares in Unilever rose 60p to Pounds 13.54.
It has been spending more on marketing , as well as research and development , as it tries to improve sales growth , which has lagged competitors like Procter & Gamble .
Spending on advertising and promotions as a percentage of sales rose 80 basis points in the quarter .
However , Unilever is still battling to lift profit margins .
This quarter it reported margins of 14.8 per cent , 80 basis points lower than the same period a year earlier .
Tim Potter , of Goldman Sachs , said the company was likely to turn the corner on revenue growth this year and " 2007 could be the year when it turns the corner on margins " .
Pre-tax profits fell 19 per cent to Euros 1.1bn due to comparisons with one-off gains in the third quarter of 2005 .
The company had also set aside Euros 300m for a possible settlement related to the conversion of preference shares issued by its Dutch arm in 1999 .
Turnover rose 4 per cent at constant exchange rates to Euros 10bn , while earnings per share from continuing operations fell 47 per cent to Euros 0.25.
Unilever said it had succeeded in putting through price increases on its laundry , tea and olive oil products to help offset higher commodity costs , which had added Euros 500m to total costs this year .
It remained " cautious " about commodities in the fourth quarter .
The group plans to undertake a Euros 1.5bn share buy-back programme in 2007 .
Nine-month pre-tax profits were Euros 3.79bn ( Euros 3.65bn ) on turnover which advanced to Euros 29.9bn ( Euros 28.6bn ) .
FT Comment
* Financial investment in marketing and brand innovation appears to be paying off , particularly in Unilever 's personal care division .
The company has impressed analysts with its consistent sales growth ; the next step is to deliver consistent profits growth .
