Unilever 's shake-up
Like P&G , Unilever spent a long time in a funk .
For the best part of a decade , turnover barely budged , share performance was lacklustre and strategic direction was wanting , writes Louise Lucas .
Under Paul Polman , himself a P&G alumnus who took up the reins at the Anglo-Dutch group at the start of 2009 , much has changed .
Targeting a doubling of turnover to EUR80bn - over an unspecified timeframe but generally taken to be 2020 - he set about divesting small non-core assets , launching bold acquisitions , speeding up innovation and forging further into emerging markets , which now account for 57 per cent of revenues .
So Skippy peanut butter and Chicken Tonight cook-in sauces were ejected from the larder .
In their stead came the faster-growing and more profitable shampoos of Albert Culver and Russian cosmetics maker Kalina .
Unilever is " streets ahead of P&G " on innovation , according to Warren Ackerman , analyst at Societe Generale .
The maker of Dove shampoo and Flora margarine last year rolled out 90 innovations to more than 10 countries , a tenfold increase on 2009 levels .
Mr Polman believes that new products are vital to tempt cash-strapped consumers to part with their dwindling disposable incomes .
But it is not just Unilever that is giving P&G a run for its money .
L'Oreal of France has been selling more skincare creams and cosmetics across the globe , helping it report a 5.5 per cent year-on-year increase in sales in the first quarter .
Gallingly for P&G , competitors are grabbing share in some of its top markets .
On home turf in the US , L'Oreal is elbowing P&G shampoos and conditioners off bathroom shelves .
In China , one of the few emerging markets where P&G boasts a longer history than Unilever , L'Oreal lifted sales by 11 per cent year-on-year in its first quarter .
Emerging markets are generally one of P&G 's weaker suits : approaching 40 per cent , its sales from these regions lag Colgate-Palmolive 's 50 per cent and virtually all European rivals .
This is not all bad .
Most participants flagged up softening in these markets in aggregate , and profitability tends to be lower , partly due to inflated media costs and higher capital expenditure .
But P&G , the company that proudly launched 10 cent nappies in China - at a time when toddlers were most likely to be found wearing pants with strategic rips - can not afford to slip here .
As makers of infant formula have discovered , even when sales of Scotch whisky or designer handbags start to flag , Chinese babies are a lucrative market .
Credit : By Louise Lucas
