Unilever lines up Pounds 200m of ITV airtime
Unilever is today expected to announce a four-year agreement to buy Pounds 200m worth of airtime with ITV , bucking the trend of declining advertising revenues at the broadcaster .
The agreement , which could be announced alongside ITV 's preliminary results , replaces an agreement struck four years ago for a similar sum but will see a greater share of Unilever 's budget spent on ITV 's new channels .
Shareholders in ITV have been concerned about an expected 14 per cent fall in advertising on ITV1 , its core mass-market channel , in the first quarter of the yearand are expecting guidance about whether ITV sees this as a seasonal anomaly or a pattern for the full year .
In 2004 , a weak first quarter was followed by a recovery in the second quarter .
Unilever , which owns brands such as Dove , Lynx , Flora and Hellmann 's , brokered the deal through Mindshare , the WPP-owned media buying agency .
It is expected to spread its spending across ITV1 and the newer channels , with family-focused brands such as Persil remaining predominantly on ITV1 and younger brands such as Lynx getting more exposure on other channels .
Unilever said yesterday : " Obviously ITV is still the prime deliverer of mass audiences even in this fragmenting market and it 's still important for us and helps with our big brands . "
Other brands lent themselves to channels such as ITV2 , ITV3 and ITV4 , which have more targeted audiences , the company said .
ITV would not comment .
The broadcaster is expected to deliver a strong increase in pre-tax profit for 2005 , up from Pounds 255m to Pounds 435m as favourable regulatory judgements are expected to outweigh the impact of declining advertising revenues .
Turnover is forecast to increase from Pounds 2.08bn to Pounds 2.16bn and earnings per share should rise from 5.32p to about 7.5p.
Analysts are also looking for an update on ITV 's new media strategy .
ITV Consumer , the division that manages its digital initiatives , acquired Friends Reunited late last year and is expected to give some details of how the business has been integrated , including the potential for cross-promotion between television and online .
