Unilever sparks strong interest on talk of big dividend
By NEIL HUME and ROBERT ORR
Unilever was in focus yesterday amid talk the consumer goods company could soon announce plans for a large capital return .
Unilever is due to ann-ounce full-year results on February 7 and analysts believe the company may commit to a large dividend increase , a bigger share buy-back or both .
Rob Mann at Collins Stewart said he believed Unilever had an under-leveraged balance sheet and therefore could return cash to shareholders and still make bolt- on acquisitions .
Citigroup noted that Unilever offered investors good exposure to emerging markets ( which now represent 44 per cent sales and a similar proportion of profits ) and could take on an extra Euros 7bn ( Pounds 5.3bn ) of debt .
Unilever finished the day 1.6 per cent lower at Pounds 18.19.
Volume was heavy , with more than 12m shares changing hands .
In the wider market , leading shares gave ground after the Bank of England decided to leave interest rates on hold at 5.5 per cent .
The FTSE 100 finished 50 points , or 0.8 per cent , lower at 6,222.7 , while the more domestically-orientated FTSE 250 dropped 163.4 per cent , or 1.6 per cent , to 9,800.6.
Traders said the mid- cap index had also been hit by a large " sell " programme .
Transport stocks had a poor day as investors banked profits made in the past year and used the proceeds to pick up cheap cyclical stocks .
FirstGroup dropped 4.6 per cent to 681 1/2p , while Stagecoach , which had risen 57 per cent in the past year , fell 8.3 per cent to 237p .
Profit taking prompted by the BoE rate decision left mortgage lender Alliance & Leicester 4 per cent lower at 724 1/2p .
Late in the session there were suggestions that a UK bank other than Northern Rock , off 4.5 per cent at 85 1/4p , had been borrowing heavily from the BoE .
Unsettled by those rumours , rival HBOS lost 4.3 per cent to 647p .
There was no respite for Marks and Spencer .
Down 18 per cent on Wednesday after a dismal trading statement , its shares fell a further 3.5 per cent to 395p as analysts cut forecasts and downgraded .
Joint house broker Morgan Stanley lowered its rating to " equal- weight " from " over-weight " and said it was no longer convinced that M&S would prove more defensive than the rest of the retail sector in the current consumer downturn .
On a brighter note , J Sainsbury rallied 6.3 per cent to 388p on the back of a reassuring third-quarter trading update .
Elsewhere there was heavy trading in Kingfisher on rumours that recent share price weakness had left the home improvement chain vulnerable to a bid .
More than 87m Kingfisher shares changed hands - nearly three times the daily average .
The stock closed 3.7 per cent higher at 119.6p.
Carphone Warehouse bounced 2.2 per cent to 306 1/4p after Bear Stearns said concerns about slowdown in its retail business had been overdone .
However , not everyone took that view .
Evolution Securities downgraded to " add " from " buy " .
" The pre-pay market is likely to have slowed after two exceptional years - as handsets have become more sophisticated , the cost of purchasing a handset for the pre-pay user has substantially increased , " it said .
Imperial Tobacco rose 3.3 per cent to Pounds 27.52 , while British American Tobacco improved 2.1 per cent to Pounds 20.49 as investors continued to seek defensive stocks .
" Tobacco has consistently underperformed the US and European market and consumer staples in recessions and bear markets since 1973 , " JP Morgan said .
Of mid-caps , Mitchells & Butlers firmed 0.1 per cent to 390 1/2p on talk that Robert Tchenguiz , who has a 20 per cent interest in the pub company , had been in the market buying more shares .
CSR was marked 9.5 per cent lower at 499p on rumours rival Broadcom had won the contract to provide the Bluetooth / WiFi microchip for the next generation iPhone , which is due to launch in the summer .
Helphire , the accident management group , fell 10.2 per cent to 290p , but could rally this morning .
As the market closed , the company issued a positive trading statement saying : " The second half of the financial year has started strongly with record levels of new hires . "
Poor reception for ITV
Broadcaster ITV sank to a record low yesterday , falling 3.5 per cent to 69.7p after Oriel
Securities advised clients to sell down to 60p .
" We believe consensus forecasts remain too high and expect further downgrades , " it said .
The broker also noted that ITV shares were trading on a prospective price / earnings ratio of nearly 17 , which it said was too expensive against a backdrop of slowing consumer spending .
