Unilever pledge boosts confidence
Household goods ; Shares up 10 % after chief 's statement ; Sales poor but plans to improve volume
Unilever has begun to win back investors ' confidence , with the company 's shares rising almost 10 per cent yesterday after new chief executive Paul Polman committed to improving sales volumes .
Unilever 's first-quarter sales levels were poor , dropping 1.8 per cent , compared to a 1.6 per cent decline in the previous quarter .
Mr Polman said it was too early for Unilever to produce rising sales volumes .
" Life does n't change in three months and the economy has not gotten better . "
But he claimed Unilever was making " good progress " with plans to revive volume growth , which include bringing new products to market faster and developing cheaper ones .
Analysts said they were becoming more optimistic that Mr Polman would deliver on his promises , even though he has refrained from giving specific financial guidance .
Julian Hardwick , analyst at RBS , said : " The body language is more positive than it was in February . . . they 've now committed to delivering an improved volume performance . "
Underlying sales growth of 4.8 per cent was stronger than expected as Unilever benefited from price increases pushed through last year .
Martin Deboo , analyst at Investec , said Unilever should be able to start reducing prices later this year - which could lead to higher sales volumes - as commodity costs decline .
Investec estimates that Unilever 's products are 12 per cent more expensive today than they were two years ago .
Western Europe remains a difficult market for Unilever , with sales volumes dropping 3.7 per cent in the quarter as consumers switched to cheaper own-label products , particularly in margarine .
" Consumers are re-questioning the value equation , " Mr Polman said , adding that Unilever 's Surf laundry detergent was the company 's fastest growing brand in the UK because it was priced at the lower end of the -market .
Unilever has been trying to make its products more appealing to consumers .
It has introduced a cheaper version of Surf in South Africa , and has revamped its Domestos bleach range in the UK to include a bleach that claims to be effective for 24 hours ( up from 12 hours previously ) .
In the US , it has licensed the Starbucks brand for ice cream .
It is cutting costs by reducing the number of formulas it uses in its household and food products and is extending campaigns promoting the " goodness " of margarine to more countries to try and boost sales .
Unilever 's shares closed up 9.8 per cent at pound(s)14.43 in London .
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins in London
