Unilever hangs on to European laundry list
N American brands sold for $1.45bn ; Focus remains on emerging markets
Unilever has ruled out selling its European laundry brands , including Persil , Surf and Comfort , in spite of signalling a stronger focus on emerging markets yesterday .
Its renewed commitment to the brands came as it sold its North American laundry brands for $1.45bn ( pound(s)730m ) to private equity group Vestar Capital Partners .
Keith Weed , Unilever 's group vice-president for home care products , said : " For western Europe , this is still very much a strong business that we would keep . "
Unilever 's European laundry brands are estimated to have just over EUR1bn ( pound(s)790m ) in sales .
Growth of the brands has , however , lagged behind those in emerging markets , where sales have risen 6 to 8 per cent during the past three years .
" The difference between developed and emerging markets in growth rates is quite considerable , " Mr Weed said , adding the company decided to sell its US laundry business because it was dragging down sales globally .
" This [ deal ] increases our growth rate . "
Unilever has strong positions in emerging markets , controlling about 70 per cent of the laundry market in Brazil , 80 per cent in Argentina , 80 per cent in South Africa and 40 per cent in India .
About two-thirds of its laundry sales now come from emerging markets .
Tight credit conditions forced Unilever to accept some preference shares instead of cash to conclude yesterday 's sale .
Unilever will get $1.08bn in cash plus $375m in preferred shares in Sun Products Corporation , a new company created by Vestar .
Unilever will also receive warrants allowing it to acquire 2.5 per cent of the common equity of Sun Products .
Mr Weed said the deal structure showed it was still possible to sell businesses in a tricky financial environment .
" You can still get good deals away . "
He declined to comment on how long Unilever had to hold the preference shares for but said it would be able to sell them at some point .
The sale is the latest in a long string of brand disposals aimed at selling businesses with a combined turnover of EUR2bn .
The shares rose 22p to pound(s)14.85.
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins and John O'Doherty
