Unilever vows to focus on cheaper brands
Food Producers
Consumer goods companies need to change their business models and develop brands that can be sold at cheaper prices , according to Unilever 's chief executive .
" The consumer is increasingly more value conscious . . .
I do n't think that 's going to change , " Paul Polman , Unilever 's chief executive said , adding that companies increasingly have to " stretch " brands up and down the price ladder .
Mr Polman 's comments echo rival Procter & Gamble , which on Wednesday said it would step up efforts to make cheaper " valuefocused " products as its sales volumes dropped 4 per cent .
To improve the " value " it offers consumers , Unilever has been improving the quality of the Surf laundry brand it sells in South Africa ; adding whitening agents to the White Now mouthwash it sells in France ; and reducing the size and prices of the Rexona deodorants it sells in Germany .
Unilever 's shares yesterday rose 5.4 per cent to pound(s)16.34 as it reported a 2 per cent rise in second-quarter sales volumes following a 1.8 per cent decline in the first quarter .
Underlying sales rose 4.1 per cent in the quarter .
The volume increase reflects a stronger focus on innovation under Mr Polman 's leadership , who has replaced 35 of Unilever 's top 100 executives since taking on the CEO job at the start of the year .
Mr Polman has introduced " 30-day action plans " to turn round brands with declining sales .
" We want to move the [ Unilever ] culture more from discussing and analysing . . . to action , " he said .
More than a dozen brands globally have action plans , including Seda shampoo in Brazil .
Sales volumes in Europe rose 1 per cent following five quarters of declines as the company increased spending on advertising and promotions for the first time in a year .
A 50 basis point increase in advertising and promotions as a percentage of sales contributed to a 60 basis point decline in underlying operating margins , but Mr Polman said margins should improve over the remainder of the year as commodity costs fell .
Sales volumes rose 3.3 per cent in developing countries , more than double the rate of growth in either the Americas or Europe .
" There 's clearly a certain decoupling of countries going on , " Mr Polman said .
Total sales rose 1 per cent to EUR10.46bn ( $15bn ) .
Second-quarter pre-tax profits fell 12 per cent to EUR1.2bn due to one-time disposal profits a year earlier , as well as pension financing and tax charges .
Warren Ackerman , analyst at Evolution Securities , said : " Polman is starting to make a difference . "
However , he cautioned that Unilever still needed to deliver on underlying earnings growth , which may become more difficult as commodity costs fall and retailers push for further price cuts , especially in markets like Europe .
Underlying sales growth was strongest in Unilever 's home care business during the quarter , with sales up 9.2 per cent .
Personal care sales rose 5.4 per cent ; ice cream and beverage sales were up 4.9 per cent ; and savoury , dressing and spread sales fell 0.2 per cent .
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins in London
