Unilever turnover rises 10.5 % despite European weakness
household goods
Unilever , the consumer goods conglomerate , continued to steal a march over rivals , lifting turnover 10.5 per cent year on year to EUR51.3bn last calendar year .
But the maker of Dove shampoo and Flora margarine bore the scars of weak consumer confidence in Europe , where gross margins turned negative and prices fell .
Operating profit rose 9 per cent to EUR7bn for the full year and was up 7 per cent to EUR4.9bn on a net basis .
Unilever leads its peer group in emerging market exposure , which accounts for 55 per cent of turnover .
Growth rates in these markets hit 11.4 per cent though core operating margins , at 13.1 per cent , are below the Americas and Europe .
It spent a long time in the shadow of its peer group and turnover barely budged for a decade .
Paul Polman , chief executive , lauded " another good quarter of quality profitable growth ahead of our markets " .
Crossing the EUR50bn turnover mark was " an important milestone in our journey to double the size of Unilever from EUR40bn to EUR80bn whilst reducing our environmental impact " .
Analysts concurred , with Andrew Wood of Bernstein Research pointing to the consensus beating top-line organic growth of 7.8 per cent year on year in the fourth quarter .
Core operating margins were lifted 30 basis points to 13.8 per cent for the full year , which saw underlying sales growth of 6.9 per cent .
Free cash flow was markedly higher at EUR4.3bn versus EUR3.1bn on the back of higher operating profit and improved working capital - a trend under way at other groups in the sector such as Nestle .
Weaknesses remained .
Food volumes shrank and sales of spreads fell .
Mr Polman warned against complacency .
" Markets will remain challenging with intense competition and volatile commodity costs . "
Martin Deboo , analyst at Investec Securities , thought the 2013 guidance would be scrutinised by investors .
Unilever 's rating , at 17 times 2013 estimated earnings on his numbers , " does n't allow any room for slips " , he said .
Mr Wood said it would be " tough " to repeat 2012 's performance , especially on the top line , but thought 5-6 per cent top-line growth was achievable in the medium term along with 20-30 basis points of margin growth .
Unilever is continuing to invest in advertising and promotions , which was increased EUR470m last year .
Fully diluted earnings per share were up 5 per cent at EUR1.54.
Shares in Unilever closed at pound(s)25.26 , up 3.1 per cent .
See Lex
Credit : By Louise Lucas in London
