Unilever suffers Europe sales fall
general industrials ; Growth of 10.4 % in emerging markets ; Pernod Ricard also shows weakening
Unilever yesterday joined the list of consumer goods companies reporting results that disappointed investors , as the Anglo-Dutch multinational 's first-quarter sales in Europe fell .
Manufacturers of food and other staples , a sector trading on historically high valuations , have fallen firmly into two camps this reporting season : those that trump expectations , such as France 's Danone , and those that miss .
Nestle and Diageo , respectively the world 's biggest food group and distiller , have reported earnings in recent days that fell short of investors ' expectations .
Procter & Gamble 's shares fell heavily on Wednesday after the owner of brands such as Pantene and Crest reported disappointing sales figures .
Unilever , maker of Flora margarine and Dove shampoo , had to contend with strong comparables from the year-ago period and poor spring weather across Europe , which crimped ice cream sales .
The company reported a rise in annual underlying sales growth in the first quarter of 4.9 per cent , 70 basis points below consensus market expectations .
On a reported basis , and taking into account a negative hit from foreign exchange rates , Unilever lifted turnover 0.2 per cent to EUR12.2bn.
Europe overall proved the weak spot ; underlying sales reversed 3.1 per cent as people both bought fewer Unilever goods and paid less for them .
" Southern Europe remains particularly difficult and consumer confidence in northern Europe continues to be eroded by fiscal tightening and the continuing impact of the financial crisis , " Unilever said .
Emerging markets grew a robust 10.4 per cent , in contrast to the softening of growth flagged by some of its peers .
Nowhere was that more clearly highlighted than at French distiller Pernod-Ricard , whose brands include Chivas Regal and Absolut vodka .
Like its peers , Pernod Ricard has ridden the wave of Chinese demand for Scotch and Cognac , reporting organic growth in the country of 18 per cent in the first half .
However , the latest numbers for the third quarter showed a 2 per cent contraction , according to Deutsche Bank .
Overall the French group reported organic sales growth of 6.1 per cent versus consensus of 7.4 per cent .
Food was Unilever 's weakest suit , falling an underlying 0.5 per cent , partly due to aggressive promotions .
" Spreads has long been Unilever 's Achilles heel and in our view remains a structural issue , " said Warren Ackerman , analyst at Societe Generale .
Unilever shares fell 3 per cent to pound(s)27.60 , yesterday .
Credit : By Louise Lucas
