Unilever to keep laundry brands in Europe
household goods
Unilever yesterday ruled out selling its European laundry brands in spite of signalling a stronger focus on emerging markets following yesterday 's sale of its North American presence in that segment for $1.45bn to private equity group Vestar Capital Partners .
Keith Weed , Unilever 's group vice-president for home care , said : " For western Europe , this is still very much a strong business that we would keep . "
Unilever 's European laundry brands , which include Persil , Surf and Comfort , are estimated to have just over EUR1bn ( $1.6bn ) in sales .
Growth of these brands has however lagged progress in emerging markets , where sales have risen between 6 per cent and 8 per cent over the past three years .
" The difference between developed and emerging markets in growth rates is quite considerable , " Mr Weed said , adding that the company decided to sell its US laundry business because it was dragging down sales globally .
" This [ deal ] increases our growth rate . "
Unilever has very strong positions in emerging markets , controlling about 70 per cent of the laundry market in Brazil , 80 per cent in Argentina , 80 per cent in South Africa and 40 per cent in India .
About two-thirds of Unilever 's laundry products sales now come from emerging markets .
Tight credit conditions forced Unilever to accept some preference shares instead of cash to conclude yesterday 's sale .
Unilever will get $1.075bn in cash plus $375m in preferred shares in Sun Products Corporation , a new company created by Vestar .
Unilever will also receive warrants allowing it to acquire 2.5 per cent of the common equity of Sun Products .
Mr Weed said the deal structure showed it was still possible to sell businesses in a tricky financial environment .
" You can still get good deals away . "
He declined to comment on how long Unilever had to hold the preference shares for , but said the company would be able to sell them at some point .
The sale is the latest in a long string of brand disposals aimed at selling off businesses with a combined turnover of EUR2bn .
Unilever 's shares closed 22p , or 1.5 per cent , higher at pound(s)14.85.
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins and John O'Doherty in London
