Unilever ahead and stresses cheap brands
Food Producers
Fast-moving consumer goods companies must change their business models and develop brands that sell more cheaply , Unilever 's chief executive said as the group reported second-quarter underlying sales up 4.1 per cent .
" The consumer is increasingly value-conscious . . .
I do n't think that 's going to change , " said Paul Polman , adding that companies have to do more to " stretch " brands up and down the price ladder .
Mr Polman 's comments echo rival Procter & Gamble , which on Wednesday said it would step up efforts to make cheaper , " valuefocused " products as sales volumes dropped 4 per cent .
To improve the " value " it offers consumers , Unilever said it has been improving the quality of the Surf laundry brand in South Africa ; adding whitening agents to the White Now mouthwash in France ; and reducing the size and price of the Rexona deodorants in Germany .
Unilever 's shares yesterday rose 84p to pound(s)16.29 as it reported a 2 per cent rise in second-quarter sales volumes following a 1.8 per cent fall in the first quarter .
The volume increase reflects a focus on innovation under Mr Polman 's leadership , who has replaced 35 of Unilever 's top 100 executives since taking on the chief executive job at the start of the year .
Mr Polman has introduced " 30-day action plans " to turn round brands with declining sales .
" We want to move the culture more from discussing and analysing . . . to action , " he said .
Sales volumes in Europe rose 1 per cent following five quarters of declines as the company increased spending on advertising and promotions for the first time in a year .
For the first half , total sales were steady at EUR19.96bn ( pound(s)17bn ) , while pre-tax profits fell from EUR3.14bn to EUR2.29bn due to one-time disposal profits a year earlier , as well as pension financing and tax charges .
Earnings per share before restructuring costs fell from 79cents to 53 cents .
* FT Comment
Mr Polman 's pledges to restore volume growth at Unilever are being met sooner than expected , lifting its share price and closing the discount with its peers .
But the company still needs to deliver on underlying earnings growth , which could be challenging in the second half as retailers resist further price increases due to falling commodity costs .
With analysts forecasting pre-tax profit of EUR5.7bn for 2009 , Unilever now is trading in line with its peers on a price / earnings ratio of 14.4 and is fairly valued .
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins , Consumer Industries Correspondent
