Unilever to buy Alberto Culver in $3.7bn deal
Move to raise profile in personal care products ; UK and US hair care share set to double
Unilever is to buy Alberto Culver , the US consumer products group , in a $3.7bn ( pound(s)2.3bn ) deal that will see it bring brands such as TRESemme and VO5 shampoos into the Anglo-Dutch conglomerate 's stable of hair care and skin care products .
The deal would be the biggest acquisition since Paul Polman became chief executive of Unilever in January 2009 .
It would be the second big takeover under his tenure , following on from the $1.9bn deal to acquire the European personal care division of Sara Lee in September last year .
While it produces products such as low-sodium food dressings and baking sprays , Alberto Culver would primarily expand Unilever 's operations in personal care products such as skincare , hair care and body wash .
As a result of the deal , Unilever would be the largest company in hair conditioning , the second-largest producer of shampoo and the third largest in sales of hair styling products .
It would double the company 's market share in hair care both in the UK and the US .
But the group would still trail L'Oreal and Procter & Gamble in the US hair care market .
" Personal care is a strategic category for Unilever and growing rapidly , " Mr Polman said .
" Ten years ago it represented 20 per cent of our turnover .
Strong organic growth has driven it to now reach over 30 per cent , with strong positions in many of the emerging markets . "
Alberto Culver was formed in 1955 by the Chicago entrepreneur Leonard Lavin , who took a Los Angeles-based supplier of beauty products and used it to develop the VO5 hairdressing brand .
Alberto Culver still owns the Alberto VO5 brand of hair care products , but has expanded into skincare with the Simple , St Ives and Noxzema brands .
It owns an array of food brands including Baker 's Joy and Mrs Dash food seasonings .
Analysts said Unilever appeared to be paying a demanding price for Alberto Culver but the deal made strategic sense .
The proposed price tag values the company , including its small cash pile , at about 14 times the consensus forecast for its 2010 earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of $259m .
The group is targeting synergies of a minimum 10 per cent of sales , or $160m , by cutting overlaps in distribution , sales , manufacturing and head office costs .
For the 12 months ending in June , Alberto Culver made revenues of $1.6bn and earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of more than $250m .
Mr Polman described Alberto Culver as a " bolt-on acquisition " and signalled that Unilever was not about to shift strategy to target large deals .
" Organic growth remains the cornerstone of our energising ambition to double the size of Unilever , " he said .
Shares in Unilever closed up 1.28 per cent pound(s)18.16 in London .
Alberto Culver shares closed up 19.57 per cent in New York at $37.64.
Lex , Page 16 Clean-up , Page 19 Markets , Page
Credit : By John O'Doherty and Louise Lucas
