Unilever buoyed by growth pledge
Food Producers
Unilever appears to be winning back the confidence of investors , with shares in the consumer goods group rising almost 10 per cent yesterday after Paul Polman , its new chief executive , committed to improving sales volumes .
Unilever 's first-quarter sales volumes were poor , dropping 1.8 per cent , compared with a 1.6 per cent fall in the previous quarter .
Mr Polman said it was too early for Unilever to boost sales volumes .
" Life does n't change in three months and the economy has not gotten better , " he said .
But he claimed Unilever was making " good progress " with plans to revive volume growth , which include bringing new products to market faster and developing cheaper ones .
Analysts said they were becoming more optimistic that Mr Polman would deliver on his promises , even though he has refrained from giving specific financial guidance .
Julian Hardwick , analyst at RBS , said : " Body language is more positive than in February . . . they 've committed to improved volume performance . "
Underlying sales growth of 4.8 per cent was stronger than expected as Unilever benefited from price increases pushed through last year .
Martin Deboo , analyst at Investec , said Unilever should be able to start reducing prices later this year as commodity costs decline .
Investec estimates Unilever 's products are 12 per cent more expensive on average today than two years ago .
Western Europe remains a difficult market for Unilever , with sales volumes dropping 3.7 per cent in the quarter as consumers switched to cheaper own-label products .
" Consumers are re-questioning the value equation , " Mr Polman said , adding that Unilever 's Surf laundry detergent was the company 's fastest-growing brand in the UK because it was priced at the lower end of the market .
Shares rose 129p to pound(s)14.43.
* FT Comment
Mr Polman has promised investors he will get Unilever 's sales volumes growing again .
The question is how long he will take to deliver ?
On a 2009 price / earnings ratio of about 12.5 times , Unilever is trading at a discount to peers such as L'Oreal and Nestle .
With Mr Polman showing signs he means what he says , Unilever shares are beginning to look cheap .
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins
