Unilever in EUR1.3bn deal for Sara Lee brands
PERSONAL GOODS
Radox bubblebath and Brylcreem hair gel will join Unilever 's brand portfolio after the Anglo-Dutch multinational agreed to pay EUR1.27bn ( $1.9bn ) in cash for Sara Lee 's personal care business to strengthen its competitive position in Europe .
The acquisition , the first one made with the direct involvement of new chief executive Paul Polman , gives Unilever Sanex handwashes , shower gels and deodorants as well as the Dutch personal care brand Zwitsal and German brand Duschdas .
Unilever said Sara Lee 's skin care brands would complement Unilever brands such as Lifebuoy soaps and Dove deodorants .
Unilever also wants to increase its exposure to cheaper priced products to attract value-conscious consumers .
Most of Sara Lee 's products are in the " value " or mid-tier price range , with Dove deodorants costing more than Sanex deodorants .
Analysts at Credit Suisse said the acquisition showed Unilever was becoming more active in driving volume growth and less reliant on cost-cutting .
People close to Unilever said the company was becoming more comfortable making large acquisitions as it completes a long period of internal restructuring .
" They really feel their house is in order so their ability to integrate these deals is great , " said one person .
The deal raises Unilever 's exposure to developing markets .
The UK is the biggest part of Sara Lee 's business , followed by the Netherlands , with around 15 per cent of sales in emerging markets such as the Philippines and South Africa .
Warren Ackerman , analyst at Evolution Securities , said the deal would increase Unilever 's European skin cleansing market share from 13 per cent to 23 per cent and increase its leadership position over Colgate , Henkel and Beiersdorf .
Sara Lee decided to sell its personal care and household business , which contributes some 17 per cent of total revenues , about six months ago as part of a plan to transform the US group into a smaller , more focused company .
Unilever bought only half of the Sara Lee business that was up for sale .
" We never bid for the whole , " said one person close to the company .
" It was a deal made to Unilever 's terms . "
The Sara Lee business is worth EUR750m in sales , and has earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of EUR128m , making the value of the deal a reasonable 10 times ebitda .
Brands remaining with Sara Lee include Kiwi shoe polish , Ambi Pur air fresheners and Ridsect insecticides .
Unilever was advised by JPMorgan .
Sara Lee is being advised by Goldman Sachs .
Credit : By Jenny Wiggins in London
