Unilever to broaden mix of board FOOD PRODUCERS
Patrick Cescau , chief executive of Unilever , plans to improve the diversity of the Anglo-Dutch company 's board of directors by adding women and people from different ethnic backgrounds .
Unilever was criticised by shareholders at its annual meeting in London last month for the lack of diversity on its board .
The 14-member board contains only one woman , non-executive director Baroness Chalker , and no representatives from countries inthe southern hemisphere .
Mr Cescau told the Financial Times that Unilever 's board did not reflect the diversity of the company .
Some 30 per cent of Unilever 's managers are women and his seven- member executive team contains two Indians , he said .
" That 's a very diverse team . "
Unilever is also searching for a new non-executive chairman with its current chairman Antony Burgmans due to retire by the company 's annual meeting next year .
Mr Cescau declined to comment on the search process but confirmed that the new chairman would be an outsider .
The prospect of changes to the board - although MrCescau did not specify a date - comes as Unilever 's first sole chief executive tries to improve the company 's image with investors and analysts .
" Leadership is about dealing with change , " he said , adding that the most important changes to be made at Unilever were in the behaviour of employees rather than processes and systems .
Mr Cescau spent the end of last week in Paris trying to " articulate " Unilever 's transformation at an international gathering of business leaders from the food industry .
" We 've started with some negative baggage , " he said , referring to Unilever 's past difficulties in producing growth in line with the market 's expectations .
He said the Europeanbusiness , which accountsfor some 40 per cent of turnover , was making progress because its rate of decline in underlying sales has slowed from 3 per cent in 2004 to 0.5 per cent in the first quarter .
" This is progress . "
However , he admitted that there was still a gap between Unilever and its competition , such as Nestle , Danone and L'Oreal , with their faster rates of growth .
" We need to continue to work hard in Europe to bring Europe to a level we are satisfied with , " he said .
Unilever 's total underlying sales have been growing at around 3 per cent .
Mr Cescau said that , if sales were to improve further , the company needed to invest more in operations that were growing quickly , such as emerging markets and personal care .
Mr Cescau said Unilever will invest " disproportionately " in both these areas .
Personal care , which accounts for a quarter of Unilever 's turnover , grew at 6 per cent last year .
He maintained , however , that all businesses - including food - had a contribution to make to the long-term growth of the company and that he would be satisfied with slow growth of some categories if they can deliver healthy cash flow .
