Unilever boosts turnround hopes
* Emerging markets help underlying sales figures
Unilever has raised hopes of a sustained turnround in its business after the consumer goods company yesterday reported good financial results for the second consecutive quarter , with underlying sales rising 3.3 per cent due to growth in emerging markets .
The results surprised analysts , who had questioned whether the company - which has struggled to match the performance of competitors such as Procter & Gamble in recent years - could match its strong first-quarter earnings .
Michael Steib , equity analyst at Morgan Stanley , said : " Unilever has taken a significant step today towards proving that their top line can grow again . "
Unilever 's shares rose 3.8 per cent to close at 572p yesterday , their highest level since April 2004 .
The company 's stock has gained 11.8 per cent this year .
Analysts said Unilever produced its best quarterly performance since the fourth quarter of 2002 in spite of a second write- down in its meal replacement business , Slim-Fast .
Although Slim-Fast only accounts for about 1 per cent of Unilever 's overall sales , its poor performance is seen by analysts as an indictment of management .
Unilever took a Euros 353m ( Pounds 244m ) write-down in Slim-Fast after sales of its products fell 25 per cent in the first half .
Unilever recorded a Euros 650m write-down on the business six months ago .
Patrick Cescau , Unilever 's chief executive , declined to comment on whether it would put Slim-Fast up for sale and said it would focus on turning the business round .
But he said : " I do n't exclude anything . "
The Slim-Fast write-down hurt Unilever 's operating profits , which fell 18 per cent in the quarter .
The rise in overall sales volume was driven by strong demand for Unilever 's products , including Omo laundry detergent and Pond 's cream , in Asia and Africa .
Mr Cescau said that while he was satisfied with its progress , the company still had to restore credibility with investors .
" There 's still a lot on the agenda , " he said .
Unilever recently restructured its management team , abandoning a dual chairman and chief executive structure , with Mr Cescau becoming the company 's sole chief executive .
Yesterday Mr Cescau said his focus remained on growing the business , particularly in Europe , its key market .
Unilever 's performance in Europe remains weak due to pricing pressure from hard discounters and competition among manufacturers , and underlying European sales fell 0.6 per cent in the second quarter .
Unilever said it had cut prices on some products , including ice- cream and margarine , to boost its market share in Europe , and was spending more money on advertising and promotions than last year .
Still struggling with diets , Page 19 Analysis , www.ft.com / lex
