Upbeat industry figures underpin Unilever 's jump
london
Unilever was among the risers on Friday as the FTSE 100 crept to its biggest weekly gain since July .
Shares in Unilever rose 2.7 per cent to pound(s)18.16 after industry data showed sales of product lines such as ice-cream and deodorant accelerating since July .
" This improvement underpins our view that volume growth will surprise on the upside , " said JPMorgan , which repeated an " overweight " rating .
Cadbury looked to be faring worse , the broker said .
It thought Cadbury 's UK sales had been sharply below company targets since July .
The company has cranked up its promotions after last month 's bid from Kraft , so a sales miss looks unlikely , JPMorgan added .
Cadbury closed flat at 785p , with the stock inching off lows after US value investor Franklin Resources said it had raised its stake to 7.6 per cent .
Oil stocks helped underpin the FTSE 100 , which added 7.23 points at 5,161.87 after a quiet day 's trading .
The index rose 3.5 per cent on the week , thanks largely to the falling US dollar .
Whitbread added 1.6 per cent to pound(s)12.69 ahead of results on Tuesday , with Morgan Stanley , UBS and Deutsche Bank all advising clients to buy before the release .
An upgrade this week from BarCap also helped .
InterContinental Hotels , up 1.5 per cent to 823 1/2 p , mirrored a rally in US peer Marriott International overnight , which beat forecasts but provided a relatively downbeat view of 2010 .
Credit Suisse said the positive industry trends were more significant than the murky outlook .
BT Group was up 0.7 per cent to 135 3/4 p after announcing it would accelerate the roll-out of its fibre network at no extra cost .
The group said it would connect directly to 2.5m homes by 2012 , against a 1m target previously .
UBS said the move provided a significant sales boost , as fibre wholesale tariffs are unregulated and allow service bundling .
Moreover , the threat of extra spending from fibre was an investor concern , it said .
Competition worries in the US and India continued to dog Vodafone , down 1.6 per cent to 132 1/2 p.
The stock has also been hit by renewed speculation about how it could resolve an uneasy relationship with US joint venture partner Verizon Communications .
BAE Systems slipped 1.5 per cent to 319 1/4 p on concerns that a trading update next week could unnerve investors .
BAE 's appointment this week of Paul Anderson , former BHP Billiton executive , also spurred talk of a major acquisition .
Autonomy was down 2.3 per cent to pound(s)15.66 on profit taking after a trading statement on Thursday that was as strong as predicted .
Piper Jaffary , which cut Autonomy to " neutral , " worried that deals might have been pulled forward to help beat forecasts and argued that hopes of a bid from Microsoft looked unlikely both on strategy and price .
Among the mid-caps , DSG International rose 1 per cent to 27p after SocGen added the retailer to its " buy " list , encouraged by the fact that most of DSG 's management was taking up a share scheme that swapped basic salary for three-year options priced at 28.4p apiece .
Condom maker SSL International , the subject of takeover theories , added 1.2 per cent to 638 1/2 p after a push from Nomura .
" The market continues to underestimate the Chinese opportunity , medium-term prospects in Russia and increased take-out probability , " said Nomura , which added that SSL could be worth 900p to a predator .
ITV edged higher by 0.2 per cent to 43 1/4 p following a retread of rumours that RTL , the Channel 5 owner , might make a bid .
Stobart Group , the haulage firm , rose 6.4 per cent to 116 3/4 p after KBC Peel Hunt cleared a line of 5m shares to one institution .
Lombard , Page 15
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
