Verizon quashes Vodafone hopes of dividend from joint venture
New chief says cash may go on acquisitions
Verizon Communications has dashed the hopes of Vodafone investors by ruling out a return to a recurring dividend from the two companies ' US mobile phone joint venture , called Verizon Wireless .
Lowell McAdam , Verizon Communications ' new chief executive , told the Financial Times it was not possible to have a policy of annual dividend payments by Verizon Wireless because the leading US mobile operator may need to buy rival businesses or purchase radio spectrum .
However , Mr McAdam sought to draw a line under long-standing tensions between Verizon Communications , the US telecoms company , and Vodafone , the UK mobile group , by saying they were working closely together on several projects .
He also said it would be wrong to rule out the possibility of Verizon Communications and Vodafone merging in the future , although he suggested it would not happen in the short to medium term .
Verizon Communications , Ver-izon Wireless 's controlling shareholder with a 55 per cent stake , in July authorised a long-awaited $10bn dividend payment by the mobile operator to its par-ents .
Vodafone , with a 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , will get $4.5bn in January .
Verizon Wireless issued annual dividends to its parents from the mobile operator 's creation in 2000 until 2005 .
Verizon Communications decided to halt the dividends after 2005 because it wanted Verizon Wireless to use the cash generated by the business to reduce the mobile operator 's debt .
However , many analysts saw the controlling shareholder 's move as an attempt to squeeze Vodafone out of the joint venture .
Mr McAdam said it was unrealistic to return to a recurring , multiyear dividend policy because Verizon Wireless may want to buy rival businesses to secure more spectrum for bandwidth-hungry smartphones .
" There is not an ongoing [ dividend ] policy because we may end up buying spectrum and we may end up buying another company , and if there are needs for that cash in Verizon Wireless , that is where it 'll be generated and that is where it 'll be spent from , " said Mr McAdam .
" We 're going to look at [ the dividend ] every year and we 'll decide as we go along . "
Flirting with merger , Page 19
Credit : By Daniel Thomas and Andrew Parker in London
