Vodafone strength offers support for falling Footsie
LONDON
Vodafone was among a handful of gainers yesterday as the London market headed lower .
Its shares rallied 3.4 per cent to 139 1/2 p following solid results from US peer AT&T and on " buy " advice from Citigroup .
Citi said results due next month from Vodafone should ease concerns .
" Much of the bad news is in the market , " it said .
" We argue results could focus the market 's mind on a return to growth and firm trading . "
Investors have been spooked by a price war in India , Vodafone 's main source of growth .
This has become a pressing concern because , from May 2010 , the Indian unit 's minority holders have an option to sell their 33 per cent stake to Vodafone for $5bn - about pound(s)300m more than Citi 's current valuation .
Nevertheless , the broker argued that Vodafone was big enough to weather the pressures and maintain profit guidance at the half-year stage .
Commodity stocks weighed on the wider market amid speculation that China might curb stimulus spending .
The FTSE 100 closed 1 per cent lower , losing 50.49 points to 5207.36.
Miners were weak after officials in China said inflationary expectations were increasing , undermining metals prices .
Randgold Resources was 3.8 per cent lower at pound(s)43.91 and Xstrata faded 1.9 per cent to 976p .
Platinum miner Lonmin slipped 0.5 per cent to pound(s)16.82 after giving a cautious outlook with sales numbers that , while they met expectations , showed weaker output than expected .
BHP Billiton slid 1.6 per cent to pound(s)17.96 after National Bank of Australia said a bid for Potash Corp of Saskatchewan , long rumoured to be a BHP target , would probably cost the group its credit rating .
Potash Corp shares rose to a four-month high overnight in spite of a profit warning from the Canadian group .
But Anglo American inched 0.4 per cent higher to pound(s)22.85 on plans to sell its Tarmac and steel units .
Tullow Oil also made it on to the risers board as the battle to buy into its Ghanain field took a new twist .
BP was said to be examining a bid for Kosmos Energy 's holding in the Jubilee field , offshore Ghana .
ExxonMobil this month agreed to pay $4bn for the 23.5 per cent stake , which has also attracted interest from China .
Tullow , which operates and owns 34.7 per cent of the Jubilee field , rose 0.9 per cent to pound(s)12.64.
BP was down 1.4 per cent to 565p .
A falling oil price was no help to British Airways , which lost 4.1 per cent to 209 1/2 p for its sharpest drop in a month .
Nomura highlighted the risk to airline earnings from crude 's 100 per cent rally from lows this year , saying costs get harder to pass on to customers once prices rise above $80 a barrel .
Short covering lifted Lloyds Banking Group to the top of the blue-chip risers , up 3.6 per cent to 94 3/4 p.
One story doing the rounds was that Qatar 's sovereign wealth fund was keen on supporting an equity call by the bank , which traders believe might come as early as next week .
Pub operators surged to the top of the mid-cap risers after the Office of Fair Trading rejected a complaint that tenant ties shield them from competition .
Deutsche Bank called it " a victory for common sense and logical analysis over hearsay and ranting " .
" We believe that the industry should now settle down and concentrate on fighting the recession , " it added .
Enterprise Inns led risers , gaining 23.4 per cent to 147p while Punch Taverns added 14.8 per cent to 97 1/4 p.
A downbeat trading statement sent National Express lower by 4.5 per cent to 397p , its first decline in four days , with the group flagging up a fall in profit at its American operations .
Nevertheless , National Express 's statement suggested that it would press on with a rights issue and ignore the merger proposal from Stagecoach , up 1.8 per cent to 162 1/2 p.
" The window for Stagecoach to put together something credible looks small , " said RBS .
Spreadbetter group IG Group lost 1.9 per cent to 332 1/4 p after Japan said it may limit leverage on contracts for difference .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
