Vodafone 's new chief to rein in acquisitions
Big deals set to be funded by disposals ; Operating profit target unchanged
Vittorio Colao , new chief executive of Vodafone , outlined a shift in strategy for the company yesterday by signalling a more cautious approach to deals compared with his predecessors .
The new chief executive of the world 's largest mobile phone operator by revenue indicated Vodafone 's expansion into developing countries may be close to done by saying there were few new large markets of interest .
Vodafone 's shares closed up 6.2 per cent at 115p after the company confirmed it would stick to its operating profit target of pound(s)11bn-pound(s)11.5bn for 2008-09 , albeit thanks to favourable exchange rate movements .
At Vodafone 's first-half results , Mr Colao also pleased investors by raising the company 's target free cash flow - broadly , operating cash flow minus capital expenditure - for 2008-09 to pound(s)5.2bn-pound(s)5.7bn by cutting costs .
The previous target was pound(s)5.1bn-pound(s)5.6bn.
Outlining his conservative approach to deals , Mr Colao said any large acquisition would probably have to be funded through disposals .
Analysts said it was the first time Vodafone had taken such a stance .
Vodafone wants to see consolidation between mobile operators in its existing markets , notably Europe , and Mr Colao said the company was willing , for the first time , to buy rivals .
However , he also said Vodafone might sell businesses .
Mr Colao 's comments on deals contrasted with the ambitious acquisitions pursued by Sir Christopher Gent and Arun Sarin , his predecessors .
Mr Colao is focused on maximising revenue opportunities in existing markets and cutting costs by pound(s)1bn by the 2010-2011 financial year .
He said he wanted to make Vodafone " simpler " and " faster " so as to cope with rising economic , competitive and regulatory pressures .
" My ambition is to lead Vodafone in an industry I do believe is still attractive , and to fully explore during my tenure Vodafone 's strong advantages in brand , scale and assets , " Mr Colao said .
Vodafone 's revenue rose 17.1 per cent to pound(s)19.9bn in the six months to September 30 .
Adjusted operating profit rose 10.5 per cent to pound(s)5.8bn , fuelled by sterling 's weakness against the euro and the dollar .
On an underlying basis , operating profit fell 1 per cent .
Pre-tax profit fell 27.3 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn , partly because of a pound(s)1.7bn impairment charge on Vodafone 's troubled Turkish business .
Mr Colao announced changes to Vodafone 's dividend policy by abandoning the practice of paying out 60 per cent of earnings .
Vodafone is promising a " progressive " policy , but some analysts expressed disappointment the dividend would likely be lower compared with their previous forecasts .
The interim dividend rose 3.2 per cent to 2.57p.
Mr Colao said he wanted to keep Vodafone 's 45 per cent stake in VerizonWireless , the second-largest US mobile operator .
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London
