Vodafone confirms talks with C&WW
Shares in troubled group up almost 45 % ; Mobile operator warns offer is not a certainty
Shares in Cable & Wireless Worldwide jumped almost 45 per cent after Vodafone confirmed that it was interested in bidding for the troubled telecoms group .
The FTSE 100 mobile operator yesterday said it was " in the very early stages of evaluating the merits of a potential offer for C&W Worldwide " but added that there was no certainty of an offer being made .
Vodafone said in its statement that any bid for the company would be in cash .
However , people close to both companies said that there had been no approach made so far .
Confirmation of Vodafone 's interest pushed up shares in C&W Worldwide to 28.5p , taking the company 's equity value to more than the pound(s)700m that had been rumoured as a potential purchase price .
Vodafone 's interest surprised the market given the troubled financial position of C&W Worldwide , which had been struck by three profit warnings in 12 months after the corporate-focused business was demerged from the consumer side of the Cable & Wireless group in March 2010 .
The company 's share price lost three-quarters of its value in a year as a result .
Analysts said that Vodafone was likely to be interested in C&W Worldwide 's fixed-line network rather than its cash flow , given the flat margins and falling earnings , with the acquisition providing potential support for Vodafone 's mobile network as greater numbers of customers use bandwidth-hungry data services .
There could also be interest in C&W Worldwide 's corporate voice , data and hosting services to bolster Vodafone 's own enterprise business .
Even so , people within Vodafone cautioned that the interest was preliminary and there was no certainty that an offer would be made .
Mobile operators want to offload as much of the data traffic as possible to fixed lines .
Vodafone is already one of BT 's biggest customers , which means there could be cost savings from the acquisition of its own network .
However , analysts at Citi also highlighted the execution risk given C&W Worldwide 's poor record of operational performance .
It said this " might make for a contentious choice for Vittorio Colao 's first material acquisition as chief executive and could require sizeable restructuring capex to bring cash returns to an acceptable level " .
Gavin Darby , who previously worked at Vodafone , was appointed C&W Worldwide 's third chief executive in as many years last November .
On Thursday , Mr Darby will reveal his initial strategy to return the company to growth again in a trading statement , which is expected to include a focus on higher margin business in corporate services .
Analysts also predict a simplification of the company 's structure .
Lombard , Page 16
Credit : By Daniel Thomas and Mark Wembridge
