Vodafone revamps with Musiwave deal MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Vodafone is revamping its web portal for music and video downloads as part of ongoing efforts by the mobile phone operator to increase revenues generated from its third-generationnetwork .
Vodafone 's UK business has hired Musiwave , a mobile content management company , to improve the search facilities on Vodafone live , its entertainment portal .
The deal , due to be announced today , could increase Vodafone 's comparatively small revenue from data transmission .
3 , the mobile phone operator that launched the UK 's first 3G network in 2003 , yesterday claimed success in getting customers to pay for music , games and mobile TV .
In its latest set of accounts filed at Companies House , for the 2004 financial year , 3 UK reported pre-tax losses of Pounds 1.5bn.
Mobile phone operators spent billions of pounds on 3G licences in the hopethat such higher speed networks would help growth , particularly by allowing consumers to make use of data services such as music and video downloads .
But sales of 3G mobile phones have been disappointing and data revenues represent a small proportion of turnover compared with revenues from voice transmission .
Text messaging has so far been the dominant component of data services .
Vodafone launched its 3G network in 2004 .
In its efforts to lift sales of 3G phones , it is releasing lower priced handsets for Christmas .
The deal with Musiwave is designed to ensure that customers get a better experience on the Vodafone live portal .
Vodafone hopes that the enhanced search facilities will make it easier for customers to make multiple purchases by their favourite bands .
They will also offer customers the chance to buy ringtones and video downloads by the same bands .
Al Russell , head of content services at Vodafone UK , said the partnership with Musiwave was significant .
" Keeping the mobile content purchasing experience relatively simple and user- friendly is also key to ensure that users complete purchases and are satisfied . "
People familiar with 3UK , which is owned by Hutchison Whampoa , said it expected revenues of Pounds 100m from data services excluding text messaging in 2006 .
In August , 3 said it had 3.75m UK customers and reported revenues of Pounds 700m for the first six months of 2006 .
Yesterday , 3 claimed that its portal was the second- most popular destination for downloads of UK chart singles after Apple 's iTunes , albeit by some distance .
It said it had a 10 per cent share of singles sales in the second quarter of 2006 .
Bob Fuller , 3 UK chief executive , said revenues from non-text data services would be equal to the total turnover of Bloomsbury , publisher of Harry Potter , in 2006 .
