Vodafone views more emerging market buys
Vodafone is willing to consider more acquisitions in emerging markets after concluding a deal to secure control of Hutchison Essar , India 's fourth largest mobile operator .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , hailed the Indian deal as " transformational " for the world 's biggest mobile group by revenue .
It signalled it would look at further selective acquisitions in target markets of Africa , eastern Europe and Asia .
" If something comes up that is consistent with our strategy and with our financial criteria , we owe it to our shareholders to look at that , " said Mr Sarin , who is expected to travel to India later this week .
Vodafone is buying companies that control 67 per cent of Hutchison Essar from Hutchison Telecommunications International ( HTIL ) in a deal that gives the Indian operator an enterprise value of Dollars 18.8bn ( Pounds 9.7bn ) .
Vodafone 's shares closed at 151.25p , up 2p .
Several investors were positive about the deal , which gives Hutchison Essar an equity value of Dollars 17.5bn , partly because Mr Sarin said it met Vodafone 's financial criteria on acquisitions .
Vodafone said it would realise Dollars 1bn of savings through a network-sharing agreement with Bharti Airtel , India 's largest mobile operator .
After deducting debt attributable to certain holding companies , Vodafone has agreed to pay Dollars 11.1bn in cash to HTIL , which is a subsidiary of Hutchison Whampoa , the Hong Kong-based conglomerate .
Payment will be from existing debt and cash reserves .
Vodafone is assuming net debt of Dollars 2bn with the deal .
The group 's net debt will increase to up to Pounds 23.3bn by March 31 , although it expects to retain its existing A- rating .
Vodafone is also offering to buy the 33 per cent of Hutchison Essar held by Essar , an Indian conglomerate .
Vodafone would pay Essar Dollars 5.7bn.
Some investors who were sharply critical of Vodafone 's acquisitions strategy last year , after the group warned of slowing growth , yesterday said obtaining control of Hutchison Essar was " a sensible deal " .
Hermes , one of the more sceptical investors last year , said : " Hutchison Essar is a good asset in an attractive and interesting market .
We have every reason to believe that the group 's solid investment criteria are being applied . "
