Vodafone hits two-month high despite dividend doubts
LONDON
Vodafone showed its biggest rally in nearly two months as analysts played down fears of a dividend cut .
Vodafone 's 7.6 per cent dividend yield is the biggest among London 's blue-chips and accounts for more than 3 per cent of the index total .
But with European earnings suffering , the payout is reliant on cash from its minority stake in US joint venture Verizon Wireless , which accounts for nearly two-thirds of its net income .
As a result , analysts have speculated that Vodafone would cut its ordinary dividend to a level that was covered by cash flow from businesses it controls , then use the US cash to fund bonus payouts .
However , Barclays argued for a more palatable option .
Vodafone could keep its 10.2p dividend unchanged and use US cash to buy back shares , which would reduce the payout burden over time , Barclays said .
Using half the cash from Verizon Wireless for buybacks would cut Vodafone 's annual dividend cost from pound(s)5bn this year to pound(s)4.2bn by 2018 , it calculated .
US payments can be relied upon because Verizon , the majority partner , needs cash from the venture just as much as Vodafone , Barclays said .
Verizon 's fixed-line business delivers only modest profit and requires significant capital investment , it said .
As a result , Barclays raised its target to 200p for Vodafone , which added 2 per cent to 178.5p.
The wider market started higher but erased gains in mid-morning after futures and options contracts expired .
The FTSE 100 ended down 2.02 points at 5,852.62 , giving it a weekly decline of 1.1 per cent .
Xstrata lost 4.2 per cent to pound(s)10.05 following the surprise news that it had been given a one-week extension to respond to Glencore ' s takeover offer .
The drop in Xstrata also reflected a FTSE index reweight taking effect overnight , which removed Qatar 's 12 per cent Xstrata stake from its free float calculations and meant tracker funds had to sell around 29m shares to match the revised weighting .
Glencore lost 1.7 per cent to 362p .
National Grid lost 1.1 per cent to 686.5p after JPMorgan Cazenove turned negative .
Looming regulatory rulings and a proposed change for calculating pension liabilities meant Grid 's earnings this year will be at the peak over the next decade , the broker said .
Sage , the recent subject of bid and break-up speculation , rose a further 1.7 per cent to 324.8p.
Peel Hunt dismissed the talk , citing Sage 's valuation premium against direct rivals in spite of weaker growth prospects .
" We would question the logic of Microsoft ( or anyone else ) paying more than 13 times earnings for a business that has struggled to deliver any meaningful growth in recent years , " it said .
Pearson , the Penguin Books and Financial Times publisher , rose 3 per cent to pound(s)12.17.
Exane BNP Paribas upgraded Pearson to " outperform " based on an improving outlook for next year for textbook sales .
Halfords climbed 3.6 per cent to 268.8p ahead of a trading update due on Thursday , which was expected to show a boost to bike sales following Britain 's success at the Tour de France and Olympics .
The sports and hobby category provides more than a quarter of Halfords ' sales .
Rentokil Initial rallied 1.9 per cent to 84.5p on renewed talk that it could sell City Link , its lossmaking mail delivery business .
" City Link is seeing operational and volume improvements and , in our opinion , may no longer be a part of the group within six months , " said RBC Capital Markets after a meeting with Alan Brown , Rentokil 's chief executive .
" Underlying trends leave us of the view that the group can approach break-even in the second half and possibly be profitable in 2013 . "
Chip designer Imagination Technologies rose 3.9 per cent to 531.5p , having lost 18 per cent over the previous fortnight .
Trade reports appeared to confirm that , as expected , Apple 's iPhone 5 included Imagination 's graphics hardware .
Bumi , the Indonesian coal miner , slumped 21.7 per cent to a record low of 195.9p in thin trading .
Talk of a large seller in the market added to fears about the stability of its Jakarta parent company , which have driven Bumi shares down 78 per cent this year .
Among small caps , cherry picker maker Tanfield plunged 43.6 per cent to 28.8p after US associate Smith Electric Vehicles cancelled plans to float on Nasdaq .
Tanfield owns a 24 per cent stake in Smith and had raised pound(s)2.2m in July with a 42p share placing to give the electric vehicle maker short-term funds ahead of the flotation .
Biggest movers , Page 25
Credit : By Bryce Elder
