Vodafone eyes new round of acquisitions
mobile & telecoms ; Group prepared for European action ; Pre-tax profit rises 9.5 % to pound(s)9.5bn
Vodafone signalled it is willing to embark on a new round of acquisitions after the mobile phone operator 's full-year results were dented by the economic downturn in southern Europe .
Vittorio Colao , chief executive , said on Tuesday the UK group was prepared to buy rivals in its existing European markets after welcoming ambitious plans by AT&T , the US mobile operator , to acquire a key competitor .
Vodafone booked pound(s)6.1bn of impairment charges at its 2010-2011 results that reflected its expectation of generating less cash in the future from its businesses in Greece , Italy , Ireland , Portugal and Spain .
However , Vodafone 's results reassured investors that the industry was not suffering a broad malaise following a profit warning last month by a European rival .
Vodafone reported revenue of pound(s)45.9bn for the year to March 31 , up 3.2 per cent on the previous year , as some of its fast-growing businesses in emerging markets offset weakness in southern Europe .
Operating profit excluding one-off items rose 3.1 per cent to pound(s)11.8bn , notably because of a strong performance by Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon should benefit from AT&T 's proposed acquisition of T-Mobile USA from Deutsche Telekom , because consolidation provides the remaining operators with greater pricing power .
The deal would reduce the number of national network operators in the US from four to three , and Mr Colao said that could set a new global benchmark .
Since becoming Vodafone 's chief executive in 2008 , Mr Colao has called a halt to large acquisitions and instead sold some of the group 's minority stakes in overseas operators .
However , he said that in Europe " consolidation would be a good thing .
There are a number of situations where I can see consolidation being beneficial to all . "
He added Vodafone was prepared to be an " active " participant in consolidation in Europe , where most markets have four operators .
The shares closed up 3 1/2 p at 171 3/4 p.
Mr Colao also lashed out at the Indian authorities for pursuing Vodafone for $2.5bn ( pound(s)1.5bn ) in capital gains tax on its acquisition of a controlling stake in an Indian mobile business in 2007 .
He accused the authorities of behaviour that was " close to blackmail " by pursuing the tax claim against the buyer rather than the seller .
Pre-tax profit increased 9.5 per cent to pound(s)9.5bn and the total dividend rose 7.1 per cent to 8.9p after a final of 6.05p ( 5.65p ) .
Earnings per share were 15.2p , down 7.6 per cent .
Lex , Page 16
Credit : By Andrew Parker
