Vodafone claims gains in Verizon Wireless talks
News analysis ; Talks with US mobile operator may be entering an end game as joint-venture debt is paid down , says Andrew Parker
Vodafone is increasingly confident that the balance of power in its tempestuous relationship with Verizon Communications is shifting in the UK mobile phone group 's favour .
Vodafone thinks its negotiating position with Verizon Communications over the future of Verizon Wireless , the US mobile phone operator that the two groups own jointly , is getting stronger , according to people familiar with the UK company .
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group that owns 55 per cent of Verizon Wireless , has blocked the mobile operator from making dividend payments since 2005 , so it can pay down debt .
Vodafone owns the other 45 per cent of Verizon Wireless and has been trying , so far without success , to secure a restoration of dividends .
Verizon Wireless generates about 30 per cent of the UK group 's earnings but contributes no cash .
The lack of dividends is one reason for tension between Verizon Communications and Vodafone .
Another source of friction is Verizon Communications ' wish to secure full ownership of Verizon Wireless , which is the largest mobile operator in the US .
On-off talks between Verizon Communications and Vodafone about the future of Verizon Wireless may finally be entering an end game , however , because the mobile operator is expected to be debt-free by the end of next year .
Vodafone has been urging its shareholders to be patient , even though some have long been unhappy about the lack of Verizon Wireless ' dividends .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's former chief executive , suffered a mini-investor rebellion over the issue at the UK group 's 2007 annual meeting .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive since 2008 , is also facing calls to break the Verizon Wireless impasse , but he may be in a more comfortable situation than his predecessor .
People familiar with Vodafone claimed the UK company 's wait-and-see strategy could be vindicated by an increasingly strong negotiating position on Verizon Wireless , although they cautioned that no decisions have been taken .
Verizon Communications paid a dividend worth $5.3bn in 2009 and Bernstein analysts said that problems at the US group 's fixed-line phone business meant that it will need to tap Verizon Wireless ' cash so as to maintain its shareholder remuneration .
Craig Moffett and Robin Bienenstock , who cover US and European telecoms companies respectively for Bernstein , said in a research note : " For Verizon , time is running out .
Vittorio Colao holds the cards .
And he seems to know it . "
Vodafone has been mulling three options on Verizon Wireless : securing a resumption of dividend payments , selling its stake in the business , or merging with Verizon Communications .
The UK group 's willingness to countenance an all-share merger with Verizon Communications is partly based on legal advice that any sale of Vodafone 's Verizon Wireless stake would attract a large tax liability .
However , one person familiar with Vodafone said a merger was not attractive , partly because of a lack of synergies between the US and UK groups .
The Bernstein analysts expressed doubts that Verizon Communications could finance a purchase of Vodafone 's Verizon Wireless stake , which , after including a tax-related sale premium , they valued at $79bn ( pound(s)53bn ) .
Mr Moffett and Ms Bienenstock therefore concluded the most likely outcome was a resumption of Verizon Wireless ' dividend payments .
John Killian , Verizon Communications ' finance director , said this month that he could " handle our dividend " in 2010 and 2011 without any support from a Verizon Wireless dividend .
He said the US group would " in the next couple of years " look at the case for restoring Verizon Wireless ' dividend payments in 2012 .
" We are a long way away from when I really need to seriously think about that particular issue , " he added .
Credit : By Andrew Parker
