Vodafone fuses with Hutchison in Australia
MOBILE & TELECOMS ; Tie-up gives pair 26 % market share ; Competition chiefs ' go-ahead needed
Vodafone , of the UK , and Hutchison Whampoa , of Hong Kong , yesterday announced plans to merge their Australian mobile phone operations , in a move that should enable the combined business to better compete with local rivals .
Hutchison is not ruling out similar deals involving its loss-making European mobile businesses , according to people familiar with the company , although they said that no transactions were imminent .
Analysts said Hutchison 's UK mobile business was a likely candidate to merge with T-Mobile , which is owned by DeutscheTelekom .
Vodafone and Hutchison Whampoa have the third and fourth largest mobile businesses in Australia , and both are sub scale compared to Telstra and SingTel , the market leaders .
By merging their Australian operations , the 50:50 joint venture between Vodafone and Hutchison will have a market share of 26 per cent , compared to 32 per cent for SingTel and 42 per cent for Telstra .
The combined business will have 6m customers and annual revenue of A$4bn ( US$2.7bn ) , and will use Vodafone 's brand .
Vodafone will receive a A$500m payment under the transaction 's terms because its Australian business is bigger than Hutchison's .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , said : " This transaction will benefit customers in Australia as it creates a company with the necessary scale to compete strongly in the mobile market . "
It is Mr Colao 's first significant transaction since becoming chief executive of Vodafone in July .
In November , he said Vodafone would for the first time support " in-market consolidation " between mobile operators in particular countries .
Such consolidation should ease the price wars between mobile operators , and so enhance profitability .
Vodafone blamed a poor performance by its Australian business for a 25 per cent fall in operating profit at its Pacific operations in the six months to September 30 .
Hutchison 's group of mobile businesses based on third-generation wireless technology , which include Australia , Italy and the UK , has yet to generate an operating profit .
The 3G businesses reported a loss before interest and tax of HK$3.2bn in the first half of 2008 , although that was a 72 per cent improvement on the same period in 2007 .
The Australian business reported earnings before interest and tax of A$1.3m in the first half of 2008 .
The merger plans have to be approved by competition authorities .
The companies said the merger should generate cost savings with a net present value of A$2bn , and analysts at JPMorgan estimated the combined business should see its profit margins improve by 5 percentage points to 22 per cent .
The analysts said Hutchison was likely to exit the joint venture in the medium term , adding that the transaction , from the company 's European perspective , may " signal that they see little future in continuing to go it alone " .
See Lex
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London and Justine Lau and Tom Mitchell in Hong Kong
