Vodafone notes improvement at European businesses
Mobile & Telecoms ; Board supports current structure
Vodafone 's chief executive has answered his critics by reporting better-than-expected results and rejecting the case for a break-up of the mobile phone operator .
Vittorio Colao yesterday reassured investors that the revenue decline at Vodafone 's European businesses was slowing .
He also said Vodafone 's board was unanimous that shareholder value was best secured through the group 's current structure .
Mr Colao has been facing growing investor disquiet over Vodafone 's underperforming European businesses , as well as the company 's inability to secure a dividend from Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake .
Some shareholders say he risks receiving calls to break up the group given that Vodafone 's shares trade at a 30-40 per cent discount to some analysts ' valuations of the sum of its parts .
Vodafone yesterday said that while its European businesses continued to report falling underlying sales , they were collectively edging closer to growth .
European revenue fell 3.2 per cent in the three months to December 31 compared with the same period in 2008 .
It fell by 4.6 per cent in the second quarter .
Group revenue rose 10.3 per cent to pound(s)11.5bn in the third quarter compared with the same time in 2008 , driven by favourable exchange rate movements and acquisitions .
The group raised its 2009-10 free cash flow guidance - broadly defined as earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation minus capital spending - from pound(s)6bn-pound(s)6.5bn to pound(s)6.5bn-pound(s)7bn.
The improvement reflects better cost and working capital management .
" These results represent a good step forward since we first felt the effect of the recession in mid-2008 , " said Mr Colao , who declined to say when Vodafone 's European businesses would return to growth .
He highlighted the benefits of scale , including purchasing power when buying mobiles and other equipment , the ability to secure revenue when customers use their handsets while abroad , and the opportunity to supply telecoms services to multinational companies .
" The board regularly reviews our corporate structure and there is unanimous opinion that the current structure serves well the value of shareholders , " Mr Colao said .
He also noted good performances at some of Vodafone 's emerging market businesses .
Turkey , which has been reporting falling sales since mid-2008 , returned to growth in the third quarter .
The shares closed up 4.8p at 139.3p.
www.ft.com / lex
Credit : By Andrew Parker
