Vodafone in pound(s)4.3bn sell-off
Group to offload 3.2 % stake in China Mobile ; Proceeds to fund share buy-back and cut debt
Vodafone is selling its 3.2 per cent shareholding in China Mobile for pound(s)4.3bn , in a move that highlights the UK mobile phone group 's determination to dispose of its minority stakes .
The company said on Tuesday that 70 per cent of the proceeds from the sale would be returned to shareholders in the form of a share buy-back , with the remainder used to reduce the UK group 's net debt , which stands at pound(s)33.3bn.
When it bought its China Mobile stake in two tranches in 2000 and 2002 , Vodafone paid almost $3.3bn ( pound(s)2.1bn ) .
Based on China Mobile 's share price on Tuesday , the 3.2 per cent stake was worth almost $6.6bn.
Vodafone has agreed to sell its entire stake for pound(s)4.3bn before tax to banks led by Goldman Sachs , Morgan Stanley and UBS .
The banks will in turn sell the stake on to institutional investors .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , quelled a potentially large scale investor rebellion at the group 's annual meeting in July by signalling he was looking to sell the company 's minority stakes .
The disposal of the China Mobile shareholding was always regarded as the most straightforward because the shares are listed in Hong Kong and New York .
Mr Colao highlighted how Vodafone and China Mobile would continue with a strategic alliance formed in 2000 that involves co-operation on mobile phone technology .
China Mobile is the world 's largest mobile operator by market capitalisation and subscriber numbers .
" Today 's transaction achieves a near doubling of Vodafone 's original investment in China Mobile and combines our stated portfolio strategy with ongoing co-operation with China 's leading telecommunications company , " he said .
Although Vodafone 's investors will probably welcome the sale of its China Mobile stake , they are most focused on the group 's 45 per cent shareholding in Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator .
Vodafone has not received a dividend since 2005 because -Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group which owns the rest of Verizon Wireless , has blocked pay-outs .
Mr Colao is pressing for a restoration of dividend payments and is also open to selling the Verizon Wireless stake , which Citi analysts value at pound(s)33bn .
However , a sale is difficult given that Verizon Communications is the only plausible buyer .
A similar situation exists at SFR , France 's second-largest mobile operator , where Vodafone has a 44 per cent shareholding worth an estimated pound(s)6.8bn.
The only likely buyer for Vodafone 's stake is Vivendi , the French media and telecoms group that owns the rest of SFR .
Credit : By Andrew Parker , Telecommunications Editor
