Vodafone falls 14 % on sales warning
Vodafone 's shares fell almost 14 per cent yesterday , the biggest one-day fall in the company 's history , after the UK mobile phone operator shocked investors by issuing a sales warning .
Vodafone has scaled back its revenue forecast for 2008-09 to pound(s)39.8bn after admitting the economic downturn was hurting its mobile businesses in Spain and the UK .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's outgoing chief executive , insisted Vodafone was confident of the revised revenue guidance and highlighted how it was standing by its original forecast on adjusted operating profit and free cash flow for 2008-09 .
Mr Sarin , who steps down as chief executive next Tuesday at Vodafone 's annual meeting , said the company was " resilient " but not " immune " to the economic downturn .
" We will ride this one through , " he said .
The news dragged down the shares of other major European telecoms companies , including Telefonica , Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom .
Shares in Ericsson , the world 's largest telecoms equipment maker , fell more than 11 per cent after it maintained a sober industry outlook for 2008 at its second quarter results .
The market was spooked by Vodafone downgrading its revenue guidance just eight weeks after issuing the forecast with its 2007-08 results .
After its first quarter trading update for 2008-09 , Vodafone 's shares closed down 13.6 per cent at 129p .
Andy Halford , Vodafone 's chief financial officer , signalled the company would look at the case for a new share buyback .
The stock has fallen more than 30 per cent this year .
Mr Halford said Vodafone was watching trends at its European businesses , particularly Spain , on an " almost daily basis " , adding the company would " turn the heat up " on its cost-cutting programme so as to buttress profit .
However , Mark James , analyst at Collins Stewart , downgraded his recommendation on Vodafone 's stock from " buy " to " hold " yesterday .
He said : " It seems earnings expectations , regardless of management statements , are likely to get scaled back . "
Vodafone reported revenue of pound(s)9.8bn for the first quarter of 2008-09 , up 1.7 per cent on an organic basis compared to the same period in 2007-08 .
That performance fell slightly short of market expectations , and the main reason for the miss was Vodafone 's Spanish business , which disclosed falling revenue and slowing customer growth .
Lex , Page 14 People , Page 16 Pain in Spain , Page 17 Ericsson hit , Page 20 Markets , Page 34 www.ft.com / ukdailyview
Credit : By Andrew Parker
