Vodafone bolstered by strong UK performance
mobile & telecoms ; Concern at Verizon iPhone impact
Vodafone reported solid third-quarter sales on the back of strong performances by its UK , Indian and Turkish businesses .
The mobile phone operator said on Thursday it expected adjusted operating profit for 2010-11 to be towards the upper end of its target of pound(s)11.8bn to pound(s)12.2bn.
However , Vodafone emphasised that the operating profits guidance did not take account of the impact of Apple iPhone sales at Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator in which it holds a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon Wireless will begin selling Apple 's iPhone on February 10 and it is expected to incur costs by subsidising the smartphone so customers pay less for the device than its wholesale price .
Analysts at Citigroup said Vodafone 's 2010-11 operating profit could fall to the bottom end of its target range if Verizon Wireless sold 2.5m iPhones by March 31 .
However , Verizon Wireless should ultimately benefit from selling the iPhone because it should provide a significant revenue boost .
For the three months to December 31 , Vodafone reported group revenue of pound(s)11.9bn , up 3 per cent on the same period in 2009 .
Vittorio Colao , chief executive , said Vodafone was " executing effectively against our strategy " .
Vodafone 's European service revenue , which excludes handset sales , rose 0.2 per cent on an underlying basis in the third quarter .
The star performer in western Europe was the UK business , which recorded underlying sales growth of 7 per cent in the third quarter .
European sales were flattered by changes to the group 's structure .
The European unit now includes Turkey , where a turnround has been executed with the country recording underlying revenue growth of 31.7 per cent .
Revenue at Vodafone 's emerging markets unit rose 9.3 per cent on an underlying basis in the third quarter .
The Indian business recorded sales growth of 16.7 per cent .
The shares eased 0.1p to 177p .
www.ft.com / telecoms
Credit : By Andrew Parker
