Vodafone wins pound(s)2bn tax battle
The world 's biggest mobile phone group has won a billion-pound battle with Revenue & Customs over the tax on one of its foreign subsidiaries .
The High Court yesterday ordered Revenue & Customs to close a long-running inquiry into Vodafone 's 2001 tax return after ruling that it would be unlawful to apply UK rates of corporation tax to a subsidiary based in Luxembourg .
Vodafone , which set up the unit as part of its 1999 acquisition of Germany 's Mannesmann , had estimated the cost of losing the case at more than pound(s)2bn .
The judgment is a setback for the Treasury in its confrontation with multinationals over their ability to shift profits to lower-tax jurisdictions .
Its desire to tighten anti-avoidance rules has prompted threats by several large companies to move their tax domicile overseas .
Bill Dodwell of Deloitte said that , while he expected the financial impact of the case on the Treasury to be limited , the decision was embarrassing .
" It is un-doubtedly a setback . "
The ruling is also likely to strengthen the incentive for the Treasury to sweep away its " controlled foreign company " legislation , which imposes tax on subsidiaries in low tax countries .
It has already proposed replacing the CFC rules , in an effort to shore up its defences against avoidance if it goes ahead with plans to allow the tax-free repatriation of foreign profits .
Revenue & Customs said it would appeal : " The government will continue to defend its ability to enforce the CFC rules , which are designed to counter tax avoidance through artificial shifting of profits to offshore subsidiaries . "
Vodafone 's victory will come as a relief to other multinationals facing disputes with Revenue & Customs over anti-avoidance rules .
Advisers said a number of UK-based multinationals have financing structures in European Union countries , notably the Netherlands , Ireland and Luxembourg , which have been challenged by Revenue & Customs on the grounds they did not comply with the CFC rules .
Revenue & Customs is now bogged down in arguments with multinationals over the stringency of its proposed alternative , which would bring passive income - such as royalties and intellectual property - into the tax net .
The Treasury is considering issuing an update on its thinking later this month , but a full consultation paper has been postponed pending further discussions with business .
Yesterday 's ruling , over Vodafone 's tax returns for the year to March 2001 , concerned legislation which has since been amended .
But Mark Persoff of Clifford Chance , the legal firm , said the judgment cast doubt on the efficacy of minor changes made to the CFC rules after a 2006 European Court of Justice case involving Cadbury Schweppes .
This ruled that anti-avoidance rules could only be allowed to interfere with businesses ' freedom of establishment in the EU if they were proportionate and only attacked wholly artificial arrangements .
" The High Court has expressed ' some doubt ' as to the efficacy of sticking plaster amendments introduced in 2006 , " Mr Persoff said .
" This means , as matters now stand , the UK probably has no enforceable CFC legislation so far as EU / EEA subsidiaries are concerned . "
Credit : By Vanessa Houlder and Megan Murphy
