Vodafone to double dividend and increase share buyback
Vodafone yesterday said it would double its dividend and further increase its share buyback programme in a firm sign that the mobile operator has listened to shareholder demands to raise its cash payouts .
The increases will take its dividend payouts for the financial year to Pounds 2.8bn , giving it a healthy yield - based on yesterday 's share price close - of almost 3 per cent .
The company also raised its share buyback programme from Pounds 3bn to Pounds 4bn .
Vodafone reported a 6 per cent rise in underlying group turnover to Pounds 16.8bn for the six months to the end of September as it continued to add users to its global customer base .
The growth , slightly ahead of consensus expectations , was driven by 7.4m new customers in the first half , taking its global base to 146.7m.
However , some analysts pointed to evidence of a slowdown in revenue growth in key markets such as Italy , a trend they attributed to increasing competition from new entrants such as 3 .
After strong early gains , shares in Vodafone closed down 3/4p at 142p .
The bigger-than-expected dividend increase underlines the company 's continued ability to deliver strong free cash flow .
For the first six months , free cash flow in the group was Pounds 4.3bn , a7 per cent decline on the same period last year after the sale of Japan Telecom , the fixed-line operator .
Over the period , the company delivered a pre-tax profit on ordinary activities before exceptionals of Pounds 5.4bn.
Group earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation were 6 per cent higher at Pounds 8.3bn.
Arun Sarin , chief executive , said the higher payouts to investors would still give Vodafone freedom to pursue acquisition opportunities and maintain its coveted single A credit rating .
He said he would not be surprised if Vodafone made an acquisition in eastern Europe and he still expected to gain control of SFR , the French mobile arm that is majority owned by Vivendi Universal , the French media group .
In an encouraging sign of likely future uptake of new services , the company revealed revenues from non-text data , such as video and music downloads , accounted for between 3 and 4 per cent of total group revenues .
Lex , Page 20 Healthy returns , Page 23
