Vodafone lifts guidance and dividend
By ANDREW EDGECLIFFE-JOHNSON and ANDREW PARKER
Vodafone yesterday underlined its confidence by raising its guidance on operating profit for 2007-08 , as it claimed that revenue from people using mobile phones for web surfing was finally starting to take off .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , hailed how Vodafone had seen a 45 per cent increase in revenue from mobile data functions such as downloading music .
Such growth is bolstering Vodafone 's top line in its core European markets , where it is engaged in fierce competition with rival mobile operators .
Mr Sarin also said the revenue situation in Europe could improve next year because of fewer punitive interventions by regulators compared with 2007-08 .
Vodafone yesterday reported half-year results that came in ahead of the market 's expectations .
Shares in the world 's largest mobile group by revenue closed up 13.7p at 195.7p.
Mr Sarin said the results vindicated the group 's approach .
" Our strategy remains right and relevant in the current environment , " he added .
Revenue for the six months to September 30 was Pounds 17bn , up 4.4 per cent on an underlying basis compared with the same period last year , and adjusted operating profit was Pounds 5.2bn , up 6.1 per cent .
Vodafone recorded a pre-tax profit of Pounds 4.6bn , compared with a loss of Pounds 3.3bn in the first half of 2006-07 .
That improvement was principally because Vodafone wrote down the value of some of its European businesses last year .
The group raised its guidance on adjusted operating profit for 2007-08 from between Pounds 9.3bn and Pounds 9.8bn to between Pounds 9.5bn and Pounds 9.9bn.
Mr Sarin highlighted how Vodafone Essar , the Indian mobile business bought for Pounds 5.5bn in May , was delivering revenue growth of 53 per cent and signing up 1.6m new customers each month .
Vodafone 's businesses in emerging markets currently contribute about 25 per cent of the group 's revenue , but recorded growth of 16 per cent on an underlying basis in the first half .
In Europe , where 75 per cent of revenue is generated , revenue growth was 2 per cent , reflecting how Vodafone is cutting prices to stay competitive .
Vodafone was also hit by the European Union law that forced mobile operators to cut the charges they impose on people for using their mobiles while abroad .
However , Mr Sarin highlighted how interventions by regulators had been offset by growth in people using their mobiles for data functions such as web surfing .
Data revenue was Pounds 965m in the first half , up 45 per cent on an underlying basis .
Mr Sarin confirmed that Vodafone was interested in securing control of Vodacom , South Africa 's largest mobile operator .
Vodafone has a 50 per cent stake in Vodacom .
Telkom , the South African telecommunications company that owns the remaining 50 per cent , is considering whether to sell .
Vodafone announced an interim dividend of 2.49p , up 6 per cent .
Earnings per share were 6.22p ( loss per share of 8.02p ) .
Lex , Page 18 www.ft.com / ukdailyview
