Vodafone prepares for smart move
MOBILE & TELECOMS ; News analysis ; Smartphones and sell-offs will head the group 's strategic review , writes Andrew Parker
Vodafone will next Tuesday unveil the outcome of an eagerly-awaited strategic review of the mobile phone operator .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , is expected to give a strong signal that he will sell more of the group 's minority stakes in overseas mobile operators
He is also due to provide investors with Vodafone 's answer to the biggest question hanging over all mobile operators : how to secure long-term revenue growth from the surging consumer demand for smartphones .
Mr Colao is enjoying better relations with shareholders than at the start of the year , when some were questioning his strategy .
Investors are happier with Mr Colao in part because of the prospect of a dividend from Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator that Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake in .
Verizon Communications , the controlling shareholder in Verizon Wireless , has been blocking pay-outs since 2005 , in an apparent attempt to squeeze Vodafone out , but said in June that dividends might restart in 2012 .
Then in September Vodafone announced the sale of its 3 per cent stake in China Mobile for pound(s)4.3bn and said 70 per cent of the proceeds would be returned to investors .
In the coming months , Vodafone could sell its 44 per cent stake in SFR , the French mobile operator .
UBS analysts say Vodafone 's stake could fetch pound(s)7bn .
Investors are now increasingly focused on whether Mr Colao can restore significant revenue growth to Vodafone 's core European operations , which generate almost 70 per cent of the group 's sales .
The European businesses have been reporting falling voice revenues from basic phone services for years - because of competitive and regulatory pressures - and the economic downturn put further pressure on the operations .
However , the rate of European revenue decline has been slowing over the past year , and this improving sales trend is partly due to rising customer take-up of smartphones such as Apple 's iPhone .
Customers using smartphones are estimated by Bernstein analysts to pay 25 per cent more each month to their mobile operator than those with basic mobiles .
Vodafone is therefore getting a revenue fillip as its customers increasingly switch to smartphones , but the challenge is whether this one-off boost can be turned into long term growth .
At the iPhone 's launch in 2007 , operators chose to provide smartphone customers with " all-you-can-eat " tariffs which meant they paid a fixed amount each month .
The idea was to reassure customers they would not face large bills if they did a lot of web surfing .
But the infrastructure is now creaking under the increased data demands of customers watching videos on mobile phones .
Networks including those of Telefonica 's O2 UK have struggled to cope with bandwidth-hungry smartphone customers .
Vodafone is now betting on customers starting to value the operators with networks capable of powering smartphones .
Unlike some rivals , Vodafone has continued to invest in its infrastructure during the downturn .
Anyone wanting to enjoy the full benefits of Vodafone 's networks will probably have to pay a premium , however .
It is introducing a sophisticated new charging model for smartphones based on the amount of data consumed by customers and the quality of service they require .
Vodafone will sell a premium service to customers who want to download data at a fast speed at any time of day .
Customers can pay less if they accept slower download speeds during peak daytime periods .
" Offering attractively priced data services to a long tail of future smartphone users offers a substantial opportunity for future growth , offsetting revenue declines from traditional services , " says Robert Grindle , analyst at Deutsche Bank .
The success - or failure - of Vodafone 's initiative will almost certainly hinge on how competitors respond .
There are signs that Vodafone 's large European rivals are planning similar data pricing models , but much rests on whether smaller players , such as Hutchison Whampoa 's 3 UK , opt for a price war .
Credit : By Andrew Parker
