Vodafone and Essar clash over listing move
Mobile & Telecoms ; Division adds to UK group 's India woes
Vodafone has fallen out with its Indian joint venture partner Essar Group over plans to reverse list a stake of Vodafone Essar , in the latest blow for the British telecoms group in its Indian venture .
On Tuesday , Vodafone wrote to the Bombay Stock Exchange and the India 's markets regulator to object to plans by Essar , which holds 33 per cent of Vodafone Essar , to merge 11 per cent of its stake into India Securities ( ISL ) , a small public company .
" Vodafone does not wish a company in which it holds a majority interest to become the subject of a false market , " said the UK group , which acquired a 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Essar , now known as Vodafone Essar , in 2007 .
" Vodafone is concerned that the value of ISL could be misinterpreted as a fair market value of Vodafone Essar .
" ISL is a highly illiquid vehicle and post-merger more than 95 per cent of the shares will be under the control of the Essar Group and two other shareholders .
Accordingly , small amounts of buying or selling could distort ISL 's share price , " Vodafone added .
Essar , which has an option until May to sell its 33 per cent stake in the venture to Vodafone for $5bn , or sell a smaller stake at market value , said that the UK group had no power to change its plans to merge Essar 's telecoms business with ISL .
" Vodafone is neither a shareholder nor a creditor of India Securities or Essar Telecommunications Holdings and as such have nothing to do with this merger scheme , " Essar said .
" We have received their communication and are studying it and will respond appropriately . "
Vodafone 's falling out with its Indian partner further sours its experience in the country , which has been fraught with difficulties .
The British group has been involved in a protracted legal battle with the Indian authorities , who are pursuing Vodafone for $2.5bn in back tax related to its 2007 acquisition of Hutchison Essar for $11bn .
In addition , senior government officials have said that Vodafone might have to pay $1bn in retrospective 2G radio spectrum fees .
Although the UK group insists that no tax is due and it opposes the Indian telecoms regulator 's proposal for retrospective fees , analysts in India said it faces the risk that it might have to reach a settlement to end the dispute .
Vodafone has been struggling to boost its profits in India amid a price war that has hit its revenues and margins .
In 2007-08 , the business recorded a profit margin of 33 per cent based on earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation as a percentage of sales .
But by 2009-10 that margin had slipped to 26 per cent .
Vodafone shares rose 3.91p to 178.91p on Tuesday in London .
Credit : By James Fontanella-Khan in Mumbai
