Vodafone 's special payout poised to bolster dividend payments in UK to record pound(s)100bn
Gross dividend payments from UK companies are set to exceed pound(s)100bn next year for the first time , according to research from Capita Asset Services , writes Alison Smith .
The record payout will be boosted by the pound(s)16.6bn special dividend from Vodafone , the study points out .
Altogether , the telecoms group is handing shareholders just over pound(s)54bn - almost three-quarters of the net proceeds from the sale of its 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless .
Next year 's total should also include pound(s)200m in dividends from Royal Mail , which was privatised this month .
Without the Vodafone payment , the Capita research suggests that the outlook for dividend growth is far gloomier than the double-digit percentage increases seen in 2011 and 2012 .
Capita says that , while dividend payments in the third quarter typically outstrip those paid in the second quarter , this year the headline payments to the end of October totalled pound(s)25.3bn - lower than the distribution in the three months to end of June .
This is the first time since 2008 that the third quarter has not been the period of the largest dividend payout .
Year-on-year growth had also slowed with the 6.6 per cent increase in underlying dividends over the third quarter of 2012 , lagging behind the 7.7 per cent rise in the first half of 2013 against last year .
As a result of this slowdown , Capita has once again nudged down its forecast for total dividends paid out this year - to pound(s)79.7bn - since its previous target would require a much stronger uptick in fourth-quarter payments than is likely .
If the new forecast is accurate , it would represent the first dip in dividend payments since 2010 .
" Profits of the UK 's main companies have not yet shown strong signs of recovery .
Indeed , they have been falling quite sharply over the last year across a wide variety of sectors as the sluggish economy has meant minimal pricing power , while costs of all kinds have been increasing , putting a squeeze on margins , " Capita says .
But profits are still larger than dividend payments and many companies can call on the cash piles they have built up during the past couple of years to sustain dividend increases ahead of earnings growth .
Regular dividends are a much bigger feature this year than they were in 2012 , when one-off income payments of pound(s)6.8bn enabled companies to respond to shareholder calls for cash without getting locked into a progressive ordinary dividend policy that might be difficult to maintain .
Credit : By Alison Smith , Chief Corporate Correspondent
