Vodafone misses Footsie gains after analysts cut earnings expectations
LONDON
Vodafone missed out on the FTSE 100 's biggest gain in three weeks amid concerns that its results next week might disappoint the market .
Its shares were one of only three blue-chip fallers in London as analysts cut numbers .
Credit Suisse , Nomura and Exane BNP Paribas all trimmed earnings forecasts by about 3 per cent to reflect competition in Europe .
Profit warnings from KPN and Belgacom have pointed to smartphones cannibalising voice usage , suggesting consensus expectations for Vodafone 's margins still need to fall , Nomura said .
It cut forecasts to " pre-empt cautious margin guidance " at full-year results next Tuesday .
Credit Suisse also predicted that Vodafone Europe would miss forecasts for 2011 , though it expected US and Indian operations to compensate .
Vodafone ended weaker by 0.3 per cent to 169 1/2 p even as all three brokers kept " buy " advice .
" We do not see results as a great positive catalyst but believe that consensus is now sufficiently cautious , " said BNP .
Strong corporate earnings and gains among the commodity stocks helped lift the wider market , sending the FTSE 100 higher by 76.2 points , or 1.3 per cent , to 6,018.89.
A better than expected US performance lifted InterContinental Hotels by 3.9 per cent to pound(s)12.98 while Imperial Tobacco gained 3.1 per cent to pound(s)22.24 after boosting investor returns .
Schroders ' voting shares rose 5.6 per cent to pound(s)17.50 after Numis Securities added the fund manager to its " buy " list .
Quarterly results last week were disappointing but the stock had fallen to 13 times forward earnings , compared with a historical average of 15.5 times , analyst David McCann said .
Reed Elsevier climbed 3.3 per cent to 549 1/2 p after it hosted a seminar on its risk information unit , the publisher 's first investor day for four years .
The meeting " marked a significant turning point in the company 's communication strategy " , said Credit Suisse .
Sage Group rose 3.6 per cent to 296p on talk that the accounting software maker was a takeover target for Oracle or SAP .
Dealers doubted the talk and noted that Sage management was on a US investor roadshow this week .
But they added that the disposal of Sage 's perennially underperforming US healthcare unit looked more plausible .
Misys , which has also been the subject of rumours about a bid or the disposal of a division , added a further 1.4 per cent to 348 1/4 p.
Fiserv and SunGard Data Systems would be potential bidders , though they might need more evidence that Misys 's banking unit had been turned round , said analysts .
Premier Foods led the mid-cap gainers , up 6.4 per cent to 38 3/4 p , after Citigroup turned positive with a 40p price target .
A debt restructuring last October cleaned up the company structure but left investors nonplussed , it said , and added : " We believe that as performance stabilises , the market will be increasingly willing to ascribe a ' sensible ' valuation to the stock . "
EnQuest , the North Sea oil producer , rose 5.2 per cent to 136 3/4 p on news that it had taken majority control of the 26.8m-barrel Crawford oil field .
It raised its stake from 19 per cent to 51 per cent in exchange for shouldering $56m of development costs .
TalkTalk , the UK internet provider , lost 2.5 per cent to 134 3/4 p after it cut package prices , a move analysts said was likely to have been in response to competition from BT 's Plusnet brand .
Set-top box maker Pace slumped 39.2 per cent to 93p on a warning that it had paid too much to stock up on inventory this year .
Analysts said that , while there was no confidence left in management or forecasts , the distressed valuation might make Pace a takeover target for a rival .
Among small caps , Xcite Energy dived 25 per cent to 237 1/2 p after the oil explorer released a disappointing update on its Bentley heavy oilfield in the North Sea .
JJB Sports rallied 5.3 per cent to 29 1/2 p after Panmure Gordon set a 40p price target on recovery hopes ahead of the Olympics .
Caledon Resources edged up 2.5 per cent to 104p on reports that China 's economic planning agency had signed off Guangdong Rising Asset Management 's 112p-per-share bid for the Australian coal group .
Vatukoula Gold Mines moved up 13.9 per cent to 151 1/2 p after a positive update from a company mine in Fiji .
Lombard & People , Page 20 Biggest movers , Page 31 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
