Vodafone feels Europe pressure
mobile & telecoms ; Underlying revenue sees decline ; Challenge to new India tax demands
Vodafone has warned that there was no sign of improvement in recession-hit European markets after posting the first decline in underlying group revenues for three years .
Vittorio Colao , chief executive , said growth in its operations in India and Turkey had been more than offset by the impact of macroeconomic , regulatory and competitive pressures in Europe .
" We do not see a dramatic change in Europe in the coming quarters , so expect [ further ] headwinds " , he said , although he reiterated the group 's guidance for the full year .
The growth in data usage failed to plug the gap left by declining voice and text revenues , with customers demanding lower-priced phone packages in a fiercely competitive European market .
Revenues in southern Europe tumbled by almost a fifth year on year as trading in Vodafone 's business in Spain and Italy showed no signs of improving .
Andy Halford , finance director , refused to rule out further writedowns of the group 's southern European businesses , saying that it was not " easy to call the bottom " given the " progressive downward slide " .
The growth in emerging market revenues slowed in the third quarter , which contributed to an overall group service revenue decline of 2.6 per cent , weaker than expected by analysts .
This equated to a fall of 0.4 per cent in underlying service revenues excluding mobile termination rate cuts - the fees that telecoms groups charge rivals for handling calls from their networks , which have been forced down by regulation .
This was the first time that revenue excluding MTRs declined since the third quarter of 2009 .
There was again a stronger performance at Verizon Wireless , where it owns a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon Communications , which owns the majority , has expressed interest in acquiring the stake , causing the Vodafone share price to rise in recent weeks .
Shares in the group closed up almost 1 per cent at 171.9p
Mr Colao said the group regularly reviewed the Verizon Wireless stake but " for the time being , we are happy with this portfolio allocation " .
Vodafone has pinned its recovery on a strategic shift to the provision of mobile data .
Group data revenue rose 12.8 per cent on the back of an increase in European smartphone usage to 33.4 per cent of its customers .
" Data adoption is very strong , " Mr Colao said .
Separately , Vodafone is also to launch a legal challenge against a fresh demand from India 's tax authorities , with whom it is already attempting to conclude a $2.6bn dispute .
Vodafone has again met the Indian authorities , Mr Colao said .
" We are in talks about talks , exploring whether an amicable solution is there . "
Additional reporting by James Crabtree in Mumbai
Credit : By Daniel Thomas and Duncan Robinson in London
