Vodafone weighs bid for German cable group
UK operator considers making move for KDG ; Signs of consolidation in European sector
Vodafone , the UK telecoms operator , has discussed a bid for Kabel Deutschland , Germany 's largest cable operator , amid signs that consolidation in Europe 's fragmented cable sector is gaining momentum .
Vodafone 's senior management has been weighing up a potential bid for the German group , two people with knowledge of the situation told the Financial Times , although they stressed that the UK company had made no decision and had not approached KDG .
The revelation comes only days after Liberty Global further bolstered its role in the European cable market with the acquisition of Virgin Media in the UK .
The US group cut its teeth as a European consolidator in Germany in 2011 , when it bought Kabel BW and merged it with Unity Media , which it already owned .
Given its strong position in Germany , a Vodafone bid could see Liberty also take a look at KDG , although there might be regulatory concerns .
Deutsche Telekom , the German group , could also prove protective of its home market .
Vodafone has been linked with various European groups over the past year after comments by management that it could look to become partners with or buy into cable operators across Europe to gain access to their fibre networks .
The company had a first , brief look at KDG as far back as early 2010 .
The UK group is the only big telecoms operator in Europe not to have an incumbent fixedline network , although it does own fibreoptic lines in some countries .
The lack of a full network could put Vodafone at a disadvantage when competing against companies already bundling mobile services with TV and broadband .
One person with knowledge of the situation said there could be contact between Vodafone and KDG this week - although both companies declined to comment on any aspect of the reports .
Vodafone shares closed 2.1 per cent down at 169.92p.
KDG finished the day 8.6 per cent higher at EUR69.37 a share , giving the group a market capitalisation of EUR5.6bn.
At the end of its last quarter , KDG had net debt of EUR2.8bn , giving it an enterprise value of EUR8.4bn.
More content and the bundling of TV , phone and internet have allowed KDG and Unity Media Kabel BW to persuade their customers to subscribe to more services .
KDG had 13.9m subscriptions last year , compared with its rival 's 10.9m.
Both reported strong sales growth and quarterly revenues of about EUR450m .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone chief executive , told the FT last week that the company was continuing to look at the cable market in Europe .
He said the group would either strike commercial agreements with cable operators , invest in its own fibre networks , as it had done in Portugal and elsewhere , or " look at existing assets " to acquire .
Changing picture , Page 18
Credit : By Daniel Thomas in London and Gerrit Wiesmann in Berlin
