Vodafone in talks to sell Egypt stake
mobile & telecoms
Vodafoneis in early stage talks about selling its controlling stake in Vodafone Egypt , the country 's second-largest mobile phone operator , in a deal that could be worth pound(s)3bn ( $4.3bn ) .
Telecom Egypt , the country 's leading fixed-line phone company , has approached Vodafone about buying the UK group 's 55 per cent stake in Vodafone Egypt .
People familiar with the situation said talks about a possible deal began about one month ago , but they stressed no decisions had been taken .
Vodafone declined to comment .
Telecom Egypt said that it was not aware of the talks .
Robin Bienenstock , analyst at Bernstein , said Vodafone could expect to receive about pound(s)3bn for its controlling stake in Vodafone Egypt .
Telecom Egypt already owns 45 per cent of Vodafone Egypt , and Tarek Tantawy , the fixed-line phone company 's chief executive , said this month that it was considering how it could enter the domestic mobile market .
If a transaction is finalised , it would underline how Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , is willing to slim down the UK mobile group 's large portfolio of assets .
Mr Colao said at Vodafone 's annual results on Tuesday that the group was focused on developing its businesses in Europe , sub-Saharan Africa and India .
As well as considering the case for disposing of some of Vodafone 's minority stakes in mobile operators , Mr Colao is also willing to contemplate selling some of the UK group 's controlled assets .
Mr Colao described Vodafone 's relationship with Telecom Egypt as " very good " .
The Egyptian mobile market is expected to become more competitive after last month 's settlement between France Telecom and Orascom Telecom , the joint controlling shareholders in ECMS , Egypt 's largest mobile operator .
Their decision to end their bitter standoff means that ECMS could become more aggressive .
Egypt 's third mobile operator is Etisalat , the Dubai-based telecoms company that paid $2.6bn in 2006 for an Egyptian operating licence .
If no deal is finalised with Vodafone , Telecom Egypt could try and secure its own mobile operating licence .
The Egyptian government has not ruled out issuing a fourth licence .
Vodafone Egypt 's revenue growth has slowed markedly in the past two years because of a combination of the economic slowdown and rising mobile phone ownership in Egypt .
Almost 70 per cent of the population owns a mobile .
However , Vodafone Egypt is highly profitable , and generated pound(s)488m of operating cash flow in 2009-10 .
The margin at the level of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation was 50 per cent in 2009-2010 .
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London
