Vodafone prepares fresh round of cost cutting as revenues fall
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , is preparing a fresh round of cost cutting as he tries to offset falling revenue at the mobile phone operator .
Vodafone 's shares have underperformed the FTSE 100 by 16 per cent this year , partly because of concern at how the UK company 's underlying revenue at most of its core European businesses is falling .
At Vodafone 's interim results tomorrow , Mr Colao is expected to try to woo investors with a new target on cost cutting .
Vodafone has a target of cutting its operating expenses by pound(s)1bn by March 2011 , but analysts at Citi , the UK company 's broker , said the goal might be increased to pound(s)1.5bn.
The Citi analysts are expecting Vodafone to report pound(s)21.6bn of revenue for the six months to September 30 , up 8.3 per cent on the same period last year , and pound(s)7.5bn of earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation , up 2.8 per cent .
The performance is due to be flattered by acquisitions and sterling 's weakness against other currencies .
Some of Vodafone 's main European businesses , such as those in the UK and Spain , are expected to report declining revenue , because consumers are spending less on their mobile phones during the recession .
The results are also likely to show how some of Vodafone 's most important assets in emerging markets are under pressure .
Vodafone secured control of Vodacom , South Africa 's largest mobile operator , in May , but last month it announced an impairment charge of $400m that is expected to dent the UK company 's earnings .
Analysts at Bernstein say one possible piece of good news is the potential for an earlier than expected resumption of dividend payments by Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator .
Vodafone owns 45 per cent of Verizon Wireless , while Verizon Communications , the US telecoms company , holds the remainder .
Verizon Wireless stopped issuing dividends in 2005 , after Verizon Communications decided to use Verizon Wireless 's cash flow to pay down the mobile operator 's debt .
When Verizon Wireless last year agreed to buy Alltel , a smaller rival , Vodafone said it did not expect a resumption of dividend payments until 2012 .
But Bernstein analysts say payments could start in 2011 , because Verizon Communications needs Verizon Wireless 's cash to pay its own dividends .
Credit : By Andrew Parker
