Vodafone chief under pressure over European businesses
Mobile & Telecoms ; News analysis ; Shareholders also seek end to the impasse at Verizon Wireless , writes Andrew Parker
The pressure is rising on Vittorio Colao .
Investors see little or no evidence of progress on the Vodafone chief executive 's pledge to turn round the company 's underperforming European mobile phone businesses .
Some shareholders are also seeking an end to the impasse at Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms company that owns the other 55 per cent , has blocked dividend payments by Verizon Wireless since 2005 .
Mr Colao became chief executive of the UK-based mobile operator in July 2008 .
Since then Vodafone 's shares have underperformed the FTSE Eurofirst 300 telecoms index by 4 per cent .
Investors say he risks facing calls for a break-up of the company if he does not close the gap between its market capitalisation and analysts ' sum-of-the-parts valuations .
Analysts at Bernstein estimate Vodafone 's shares are trading at about a 30 per cent discount to the fair value of the company 's controlled assets .
That compares with an average discount of 25 per cent for European telecoms companies .
But after factoring in a resumption of dividends from Verizon Wireless , the analysts say Vodafone 's shares are trading at a 40 per cent discount .
One investor questions whether Vodafone 's mature European businesses and growing emerging markets assets should be owned by one company .
He adds that Mr Colao must either " accept a slimmed-down Vodafone as a way forward for the group or come out with a defence as to why all the assets fit together " .
Another investor says : " Talk of a break-up will be on the agenda if [ Colao ] does n't start to perform . "
However , investors are not about to repeat the revolt mounted against Arun Sarin , Mr Colao 's predecessor , in 2005-2006 .
Shareholders like how Mr Colao used his first strategy presentation in November 2008 to say he would focus on improving the performance of Vodafone 's businesses , notably on cash generation .
But shareholders were alarmed by how Vodafone 's European businesses , which contribute more than 70 per cent of group sales , for the first time reported falling underlying revenue in 2008-2009 .
The decline is not just because of the downturn .
Since Mr Colao became chief executive , Vodafone 's businesses in Germany , Spain and the UK have lost share to rivals .
Vodafone has also run into problems in emerging markets .
Its Indian business , for example , has felt obliged to join a price war begun by rivals .
However , most investors focus on the stalemate at Verizon Wireless .
Last November Mr Colao said the biggest issue confronting him was " solving the US " , given it contributed 37 per cent of Vodafone 's earnings but none of its cash flow .
Vodafone had been hoping for a resumption of dividends in 2009 after Verizon Wireless paid down its debt , but the timetable was pushed back to 2012 by the acquisition of Alltel , a smaller US mobile operator .
Ivan Seidenberg , Verizon Communications ' chairman , used a conference this month to underline his group controlled Verizon Wireless , including questions about cash usage .
He held out the possibility of dividend payments resuming some time between 2011 and 2014 , but made no commitment .
Mr Seidenberg 's comments underline how Vodafone and Verizon Communications have a tempestuous relationship over Verizon Wireless .
Vodafone says it keep its options at Verizon Wireless under regular review , including the case for selling all or part of the stake , which Citi analysts value at pound(s)27.5bn ( $44.5bn ) .
Vodafone has received legal advice that selling the stake could incur a large tax bill , which means it may simply have to wait for dividend payments in 2012 .
Additional reporting by Kate Burgess
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London
