Vodafone under pressure onstrategy amid huge write-down COMPANIES DIARY
TOMORROW
*Vodafone may be judged as much on its future strategy as its results when it reports its fourth-quarterfigures .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , is under pressure from investors after warning last November of declining profit margins in 2006 and reduced revenue growth and lower free cash flow in 2007 .
Mr Sarin is expected to set out plans to increase Vodafone 's revenue growth by getting more customers to drop their fixed-line telephones in favour of mobiles .
A survey of 17 analysts by Reuters published last week found average underlying earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of Pounds 11.64bn for Vodafone 's 2006 fiscal year compared to Pounds 10.74bn in 2005 .
But Vodafone will report massive post-exceptional pre-tax losses following its decision in February to take a goodwill write-down on its historic investments of up to Pounds 28bn , a record for a British company .
The survey found underlying revenues of Pounds 29.28bn compared to Pounds 26.68bn in 2005 .
WEDNESDAY
*Quintain , the property developer behind high-profile new schemes at Wembley and Greenwich , will report on progress at the two projects as it unveils its preliminary results .
Both are on the government 's shortlist for Britain 's first super-casino , it emerged last week .
The analysts ' consensus is for net asset value per share of 569p ( 495p ) on the back of rising property prices .
Profit is expected at Pounds 9m ( Pounds 15.8m ) while the dividend should rise to 10.5p ( 9.5p ) .
Quintain last week appointed Nick Shattock , property director , as deputy chief executive .
Market rumours suggest that Mr Shattock may in the next year replace current chief executive Adrian Wyatt .
THURSDAY
*Vedanta is due to unveil its half-year results and the market is expecting another big jump in profit from the India-based mining group .
Vedanta produces copper , zinc and aluminium in India , Zambia and Australia , and has benefited greatly from the rally in metals prices .
The company is also expanding fast , which has helped it to win over sceptical investors .
Its shares rose from 908p to Pounds 17.40 between January 2 and May 10 but the stock suffered a sharp correction during the recent volatility in the commodities markets .
Last week , Vedanta 's shares recovered to Pounds 14.50.
