Vodafone steps up non-core asset sales with pound(s)3bn Softbank disposal
Vodafone has accelerated its efforts to dispose of peripheral assets by selling its interests in Softbank , the Japanese mobile phone operator , for pound(s)3.1bn ( $5bn ) .
Vodafone officials also talked up the prospect that it would once again receive dividends from Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator in which it has a 45 per cent stake .
Verizon Communications , Verizon Wireless 's controlling shareholder , has been blocking dividends since 2005 , but Vodafone said it was likely that payments would resume in 2012 .
A Verizon Wireless dividend could increase Vodafone 's free cash flow by 50 per cent .
Vodafone 's interim results surpassed analysts ' expectations , and were accompanied by an agreement to sell its interests in Softbank 's mobile subsidiary .
Vodafone sold its Japanese mobile business to Softbank in 2006 for pound(s)6.8bn in cash .
As part of the deal , Softbank issued Vodafone with preferred shares in its Japanese mobile subsidiary .
Vodafone also issued a loan to Softbank .
Vodafone will use an initial payment of pound(s)1.6bn by Softbank next month to reduce the UK group 's net debt .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , predicted for the first time that the group could achieve annual revenue growth of up to 4 per cent over the next three years .
" We are making the right strategic choices , " he said .
Vodafone plans to capitalise on booming consumer demand for smartphones .
The company reported revenue of pound(s)22.6bn for the six months to September 30 , up 3.9 per cent year on year .
Adjusted operating profit , which excludes impairments , rose 2.7 per cent to pound(s)6.1bn.
Vodafone took a pound(s)800m writedown on its Greek mobile business .
Vodafone 's net income rose 56.5 per cent to pound(s)7.5bn , and was boosted by the sale of its 3 per cent stake in China Mobile .
The interim dividend rose 7.1 per cent to 2.85p.
Vodafone 's shares closed down 0.6 per cent at 174p .
.
Lex , Page 14
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London
