Vodafone in EUR8bn SFR sale
Vivendi seals 100 % ownership in operator ; UK group to pay debt and buy back shares
Vivendi has struck a deal with Vodafone to pay EUR7.95bn ( pound(s)7.02bn ) for the 44 per cent of SFR , France 's second-largest mobile phone company , it does not already own .
Jean-Bernard Levy , Vivendi 's chief executive , said the increase in profits that would result from the deal , subject to completion , would allow the group to raise the dividend for shareholders of Europe 's largest publicly listed media company .
The deal to secure full ownership of SFR is a long-cherished ambition for Mr Levy .
A spokesman for Vivendi said the EUR7.75bn price reflected a valuation of 6.2 times SFR 's 2010 earnings before interest , taxation , depreciation and amortisation .
In addition , Vivendi will pay Vodafone EUR200m to reflect the extra cash generation of SFR in the months between January and July this year .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , has been slimming down the company 's portfolio by selling minority stakes in Chinese and Japanese mobile operators .
The sale of the SFR stake , if finalised , would be the biggest disposal to date .
Mr Colao said the sale was in keeping with Vodafone 's commitment to " realising maximum value from our noncontrolled assets .
The sale of our stake in SFR , at an attractive multiple , represents a significant further step in the execution of this strategy " .
Mr Levy was the only likely buyer for the stake , as his company was the only other shareholder in SFR .
The multiple Vivendi has paid is marginally above that typical of European telecoms companies , based on a consensus of analysts .
Some of Vodafone 's shareholders were looking for a sale price that implied an enterprise value for SFR of at least six times its ebitda .
Vodafone said pound(s)4bn of the deal proceeds would be returned to shareholders via a share buy-back , with the remainder used to pay down debt .
Vivendi said the two companies would extend their commercial co-operation for a further three years , including a roaming agreement allowing Vodafone customers to use SFR 's mobile network when they are travelling in France .
Mr Levy said : " We are very pleased to reach our strategic objective to own 100 per cent of SFR .
The transaction will create a significant increase in Vivendi 's adjusted net income , enabling us to raise the dividend to our shareholders . "
Mr Levy told a conference last November that he would " definitely " walk away from a deal with Vodafone , if he considered the price too high .
Mr Colao said at the same conference that he would not be a " forced seller " of any asset .
The Vodafone chief is also pushing for a resumption of dividend payments by Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator in which Vodafone has a 45 per cent stake , valued by analysts at pound(s)43.3bn.
Credit : By Ben Fenton and Andrew Parker
