Vodafone eyes EUR7bn German deal
Initial approach for cable group KDG ; UK company keen on wider expansion
Vodafone returned to the European acquisition trail with an approach for Kabel Deutschland , Germany 's largest cable operator , to strike a deal potentially worth more than EUR7bn .
The preliminary approach marks a return to large continental deals for Vodafone , which is keen to expand outside traditional mobile into cable television and broadband sectors to offer multiple products to its customers .
An acquisition of Kabel Deutschland ( KDG ) would be the third-largest UK-led telecoms deal on record , although dwarfed by Vodafone 's last foray into the German market with the controversial $183bn acquisition of Mannesmann in 1999 .
Analysts highlighted concerns that Vodafone would embark on a pan-European fixed-line M&A spree to strengthen the British mobile operator 's bundled TV-to-telecoms business .
The mobile operator has been linked with various European groups following comments by management that it could partner with , or buy cable operators to gain access to fibre networks .
Most analysts also said that synergies and new product growth should offset the potentially high price Vodafone would need to pay in a cable sector that has experienced a boom in valuations amid consolidation activity led by Liberty Global .
Shares in KDG are about 45 per cent higher than at the beginning of the year .
Vodafone 's interest in the business goes back to 2010 , although it began to talk more formally to the group at the beginning of this year .
Talks have become more serious in the past week , according to people familiar with the situation , with the start of initial negotiations over price .
KDG has indicated that Vodafone would need to bid " a significant premium " on the share price , according to one informed person , even after it rose more than 9 per cent to EUR82 on the back of the announcement yesterday .
" Come back with a premium [ at least in the double digits ] and they would open the door at least , " he added .
Analysts have estimated that an opening offer may need to be up to EUR90 per share , which would value KDG on 12 times earnings estimates for next year .
" Vodafone will have a job convincing its conservative shareholders that they are not paying over the odds , " said analysts at Olivetree , which said that the price could rise even as high as EUR94 .
Vodafone shares fell 5.7 per cent to 181p on confirmation of the talks .
The shares were also under selling pressure after they went ex-dividend .
Vodafone could pursue a hostile takeover , although it has already experienced the difficulties of such an approach in Germany when it bought Mannesmann .
See Lex
Credit : By Daniel Thomas , Robert Budden and Anousha Sakoui in London
