Vodafone hits three-month low on concerns over US venture payouts
LONDON
Vodafone hit a three-month low on fears that its dividend would disappoint .
Concerns centred on Vodafone 's US joint venture , Verizon Wireless , on word that its management would not be discussing payouts at a board meeting next week .
Investors had hoped that , after winning regulatory approval last month for a spectrum purchase , Verizon Wireless would rule out further large-scale acquisitions and stream cash back to its owners .
But that decision was likely to have been pushed back to December at the earliest , analysts said .
Vodafone 's dividend policy was unsustainable without relying on cash from its minority stake in Verizon Wireless , which by next year would provide 62 per cent of group earnings , Nomura said .
" Investors need to start focusing on dividend risk at Vodafone , a new debate for a company seen as a defensive investment in European telecoms , " said the broker .
Tough trading and the recurring cost of spectrum licences meant Vodafone 's current payout commitment equated to 160 per cent of earnings per share from operations it controls , Nomura said .
It forecast management to rebase its 2014 dividend to 6p a share , a cut of 41 per cent .
Hopes of a bid from joint-venture partner Verizon would " provide a backstop for Vodafone 's valuation " , Nomura added .
However , it cut Vodafone from its " buy " list , sending its shares down 1.5 per cent to a three-month low of 174p .
The wider market drifted lower for a third day as profit-taking among the commodity stocks offset gains for banks .
The FTSE 100 ended 0.2 per cent lower , losing 10.11 points at 5,782.08.
BAESystems led the blue-chip risers , up 10.6 per cent to 363.6p , on news that it was in advanced negotiations over a possible merger with EADS .
BAE confirmed the story at the close of trade , saying that EADS shareholders would get 60 per cent of the enlarged group .
Sage Group climbed to an 11-year high , up 3.1 per cent to 315.3p , on a retread of speculation that the software maker could be a target for private equity .
With cash on the balance sheet , a free cash flow yield from subscription customers of about 7 per cent and a valuation well below US peer Intuit , Sage was a credible target for a leveraged buyout , analysts said .
However , they also highlighted that Sage was working to reinvent its sales model for cloud computing , so returns were far from guaranteed .
Anglo American led the miners lower , down 2.7 per cent to pound(s)19.02.
Anglo 's platinum unit said it had suspended operations at its Rustenburg mine in South Africa to protect employees from outside intimidation .
Lonmin slipped 5.9 per cent to 575p , awaiting news on a rights issue that traders expect before the end of the month .
The labour unrest and infighting among South Africa 's political leaders clouded the outlook for any cash call , as did speculation that Xstrata may sell its 25 per cent stake rather than subscribe .
Xstrata ended down 1.8 per cent to 993.3p.
Banks extended their recent rally , awaiting news on monetary stimulus from this week 's Federal Reserve meeting .
Lloyds Banking Group rose 3.9 per cent to 38.5p , Royal Bank of Scotland added 3.8 per cent to 274.7p and Barclays was up 1.6 per cent to 217p .
Interim results from Kingfisher proved as weak as had been rumoured , allowing the shares to rally 1 per cent to 275p .
The B&Q owner missed profit expectations by about 7 per cent , largely due to underperformance in the UK , which it blamed on poor weather .
Barratt Developments slid 6.4 per cent to 158.8p after the housebuilder declared no dividend for 2012 , against market forecasts for a 2p payout .
Its end-of-year results were otherwise in line with expectations and management pledged to return to the dividend list from 2013 .
Engineer Invensys slipped 1.3 per cent to 246p after Merrill Lynch downgraded from " buy " to " neutral " .
It concluded that takeover potential gave the shares option value but , on a standalone valuation , they looked fairly valued .
Among small caps , retail investors chased Falkland explorers higher on optimism about Falkland Oil and Gas ' s drilling on the south of the island .
After a delay , Falkland Oil was due to reach target depth at the well on Tuesday .
Falkland Oil bounced 16.3 per cent to 73.3p , while neighbour Borders & Southern rose 5.6 per cent to 23.3p.
Biggest Movers , Page 31
Credit : By Bryce Elder
