Vodafone reassures on merger of rivals
mobile & telecoms
Vodafone tried to reassure investors yesterday that it would benefit from plans for a merger between the UK mobile phone businesses of France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom .
Once the market leader in the UK , Vodafone faces becoming the third largest British mobile operator if the merger between France Telecom 's Orange UK and Deutsche Telekom 's T-Mobile UK is approved by competition authorities .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , told a New York conference that the company 's British business would still be a " big number three " if the merger was finalised .
" It 's probably going to be a better market , " he said .
Analysts say consolidation should give all the remaining UK mobile operators greater pricing power , and therefore higher profit margins .
Vodafone is the second largest UK network operator , behind Telefonica 's O2 subsidiary .
Orange UK and T-Mobile UK are the third and fourth largest operators , but would become the market leader after the proposed merger .
The fifth operator is 3 , owned by Hutchison Whampoa .
The margins of UK operators are about 10 percentage points lower than their counterparts in continental Europe due to fierce competition .
Mr Colao highlighted the Netherlands , where the number of network operators reduced from four to three in 2007 when Deutsche Telekom bought France Telecom 's Dutch business .
KPN and Vodafone compete with Deutsche Telekom in the Netherlands , and Cazenove analysts said the profit margins of all three remaining operators had improved after consolidation .
Mr Colao said : " We were not consolidators in the Netherlands but we have benefited from consolidation . "
Mr Colao used the conference to underline Vodafone 's ambitions to secure revenue from the increasing popularity of mobile phones that provide access to the internet .
Mr Colao highlighted how Vodafone will enable customers to use their handsets to buy content off the wireless internet , such as newspapers , and have the cost included on their mobile phone bill .
Such arrangements could prove popular because they avoid the need to pay by credit card , with the associated risk of online fraud .
Credit : By Andrew Parker
