Vodafone chief survives critics *New chairman says Sarin under ' constant review ' *Investors deplore ' unchallenging ' earnings targets
Sir John Bond , new chairman of Vodafone , yesterday expressed support for Arun Sarin , but cautioned his performance would be under " constant review " .
Mr Sarin suffered embarrassment when investors with 15 per cent of Vodafone 's shares either voted against his re-election as chief executive or abstained at the mobile phone company 's annual meeting .
It is thought to be the biggest protest against a Vodafone director to date .
The company suffered further discomfort when investors holding 20.2 per cent of its shares voted against its remuneration policy or abstained .
Sir John said he " subscribed " to comments by Lord MacLaurin , Vodafone 's outgoing chairman , who voiced strong support for Mr Sarin but warned he had to deliver results on the company 's new strategy .
Some of Vodafone 's big investors critical of Mr Sarin look to Sir John , former chairman of HSBC , for a swift review of the board , and to decide whether to replace the chief executive .
Sir John said : " Wherever you work in the world , the performance of management is under constant review . "
Mr Sarin 's re-election as chief executive was opposed by three of Vodafone 's top 10 investors : Hermes Pension Management , Morley Fund Management and Standard Life Investments .
Some big investors also abstained .
Some investors have become increasingly critical of Mr Sarin since Vodafone warned last November of slowing revenue growth and reduced profit margins .
In May it announced a record pre-tax loss for its 2006 fiscal year of Pounds 14.9bn.
Mr Sarin , who insisted he was listening to investors , said : " 85 per cent of the people who voted said ' the strategy of the firm , the direction of the firm , is fine' . "
Investors complained about Vodafone 's remuneration policy because it plans to cut the earnings growth targets that management must hit for share option awards from 8 to 16 per cent in 2006 to 5 to 10 per cent for 2007 .
Investors with 6 per cent of Vodafone 's shares voted against re- election of Luc Vandevelde , chairman of the remuneration committee , or abstained .
Standard Life , which voted against Vodafone 's remuneration policy , said its stance reflected " the importance we attach to leadership at Vodafone and our concerns about Vodafone 's remuneration policies , which in our opinion provide significant rewards for achieving unchallenging performance conditions " .
Insight Investment Management , another of Vodafone 's top 10 investors , backed Mr Sarin .
Vodafone shares closed 1/2p higher at 115.75.
