Vodafone strategy in focus after SFR move
MOBILE & TELECOMS ; News analysis ; There is speculation on the course the slimmed-down group will take in the US and India , says Simon Mundy
When Vittorio Colao rep-laced Arun Sarin as chief executive of Vodafone in 2008 , he found himself under pressure from activist shareholders keen for a break from the expansionist strategy of his predecessor .
Vodafone 's EUR8bn ( $11.4bn ) sale to Vivendi of a 44 per cent stake in the French mobile phone business SFR , announced on Monday , is the biggest in a series of disposals of minority holdings .
The disposal will cheer those investors who wanted a slimmed-down Vodafone with a greater focus on its controlled operations .
But it will heighten speculation about Vodafone 's course , with particular scrutiny of its strategy in India and the US .
Analysts broadly agreed that Vodafone secured a good price for its stake in SFR , given that Vivendi - which owned the remaining shares in the group - had been reported to be unwilling to pay more than pound(s)6bn ( $9.7bn ) .
Vodafone said the agreed price valued SFR at 6.7 times last year 's earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation - a 24 per cent premium to the sector , according to Citi .
" I think they 're exiting at a pretty decent multiple , ahead of a potential period of disruption in the French market , " says James Britton of Nomura .
He points to the entry to the mobile phone market next year of Iliad , an internet provider , and a UK auction of fourth-generation spectrum licences this summer .
The SFR deal will allow Vodafone to pay down debt , which , according to Merrill Lynch , will give the company " a huge credit tailwind in a sector starved of credit improvement stories " .
It follows the disposals of a pound(s)3.1bn stake in Japan 's Softbank and a pound(s)4.3bn holding in China Mobile , providing net proceeds of pound(s)11.1bn when a pound(s)3.1bn investment in India 's Vodafone Essar is taken into account .
This will allow pound(s)7bn to be returned to shareholders , says Merrill , and pound(s)4bn to be spent on paying down debt .
Yet the biggest of Vodafone 's minority stakes remains : a 45 per cent holding in Verizon Wireless , the mobile arm of US telecoms group Verizon Communications , which owns the remaining shares .
Verizon Wireless has not paid a dividend since 2005 , after its parent insisted that cash generated be used to pay down debt .
Analysts viewed Verizon Communications ' stance as an attempt to force Vodafone out .
Few expect Vodafone to abandon the US .
" The big elephant trades are done with , " as Merrill Lynch puts it .
The capital gains tax on the proceeds of a sale of Verizon Wireless would be prohibitive .
Instead , the investment is expected to start returning cash to Vodafone next year .
Cash pressures on its fellow shareholder , and strong earnings at Verizon Wireless , are likely to force a change of heart on dividend policy .
Verizon Wireless was beginning to generate so much cash , " you ca n't spend it all " , Ivan Seidenberg , Verizon Communications ' chief executive , said in December .
Despite the drive to shed minority stakes , analysts say it would be mistaken to portray Vodafone as scaling back its horizons .
Some predict a move for Verizon Wireless 's 23 per cent holding in Vodafone Italy , which would give Vodafone full control of the group and boost the chances of a dividend from Verizon .
Vodafone has a presence in Africa through operations in Egypt and Ghanaand a 65 per cent stake in South Africa 's Vodacom , which has more than 40m customers .
Last month it paid pound(s)3.1bn to buy out a minority 33 per cent stake in Vodafone Essar in India .
Vodafone has faced a rocky ride since moving into India four years ago .
With 15 operators , the country 's mobile sector is far more competitive than Vodafone 's European markets and the company faces a battle with Indian authorities over $2.5bn that the latter says is due on its 2007 Indian acquisition .
But while those problems have been well publicised , " investors have n't yet cottoned on to how good the underlying market has become " , says Mr Britton .
He says Vodafone has added to its market share in India , with prices beginning to stabilise .
" The excitement for Vodafone 's controlled operations in the next couple of years will be from emerging markets . "
Lex , Page 16 Lombard , Page 18
Credit : By Simon Mundy
