Vodafone seeks to bolster empire via strategic sales
Mobile & telecoms ; News analysis ; Group takes tough stance following bout of investor pressure , writes Andrew Parker
Vodafone 's chief executive is starting to shrink his sprawling empire .
Vittorio Colao this month supervised the sale of Vodafone 's 3.2 per cent stake in China Mobile for pound(s)4.3bn , and said most of the proceeds would be returned to investors in the form of a share buy-back .
The disposal is unlikely to be the last .
Shortly after the China Mobile sale , Mr Colao announced a reorganisation of the Vodafone group under which he took personal charge of its minority stakes in four mobile phone operators .
All four stakes are potentially up for sale , which will please investors who have been pushing for disposals of these shareholdings .
But in a video interview with the Financial Times , Mr Colao stresses he will not be forced into selling any minority stakes following an embarrassing investor rebellion at Vodafone 's annual meeting in July .
" I will never put myself and my company in the position of a forced seller , " says Mr Colao .
One of the key reasons for his uncompromising stance is that Vodafone 's two most valuable minority stakes are not expected to attract a lot of bidders .
Verizon Communications , the US telecoms group , is the only plausible buyer for Vodafone 's 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile operator .
Verizon Communications owns the remainder of Verizon Wireless and has repeatedly stated it would like to buy out Vodafone .
Vivendi , the French media and telecoms group , is the only likely buyer of Vodafone 's 44 per cent stake in SFR , France 's second-largest mobile operator .
Vivendi owns the rest of SFR and wishes to be sole shareholder .
Citi analysts value Vodafone 's Verizon Wireless stake at pound(s)32.8bn , and the SFR holding at pound(s)6.8bn , and Mr Colao does not want his difficult negotiating position with Verizon Communications and Vivendi to be hampered by investor -pressure .
The US situation is complex .
Verizon Communications has blocked dividend payments by Verizon Wireless since 2005 , in a move widely seen as an attempt to squeeze Vodafone out .
Verizon Communications has insisted the cash generated by Verizon Wireless be used to reduce its debt .
However , Verizon Wireless ' debt should be paid off next year , which could enable a restoration of dividend payments in 2012 .
Verizon Communications could , if it wished , pre-empt the dividend issue by trying to buy Vodafone out .
But any sale of Vodafone 's Verizon Wireless stake is complicated by the fact that the UK group has been advised the transaction could attract a large capital gains tax bill .
One way to avoid this tax liability would be for Vodafone and Verizon Communications to merge .
Although Mr Colao suggests a merger is not the most likely outcome of Vodafone 's Verizon Wireless deliberations , he refuses to rule it out .
Meanwhile , selling Vodafone 's smaller minority stakes may also not be straightforward .
Vodafone has a 4.4 per cent interest in Bharti Airtel , India 's largest mobile operator , through a 26 per cent stake in Bharti Infotel , a holding company .
The only likely buyer for Vodafone 's stake , worth pound(s)200m , is Bharti .
Finally , Vodafone has a 24.4 per cent stake in Polkomtel , the Polish mobile operator , worth pound(s)900m .
But any disposal process could be protracted because Polkomtel 's other shareholders are four state-controlled Polish companies .
While some investors may take umbrage at Mr Colao 's statement that they should wait patiently for Vodafone to dispose of some or all of its minority stakes , shareholders will be encouraged by Vodafone 's willingness to also sell assets it controls .
Mr Colao wants to develop Vodafone 's businesses in Europe , subSaharan Africa and India .
Although he does not identify potential disposals , his geographic focus means Vodafone could , for example , sell its controlling stake in Vodafone Egypt , the country 's second-largest operator , worth pound(s)1.8bn.
The UK group could also sell its New Zealand business , worth pound(s)1.2bn , and a 50 per cent stake in Vodafone Australia , the country 's third- largest operator , worth pound(s)800m .
Some of Vodafone 's investors have grown increasingly angry at its acquisitions record given Bernstein analysts estimate the group has over the past decade written down the value of its assets by pound(s)51bn .
The latest came in May , when Vodafone took a pound(s)2.3bn impairment charge on its Indian business , the country 's second-largest mobile operator .
Mr Colao admits some of the deals done by his predecessors were " pricey " but he does not see those transactions as precluding him from buying assets .
Although he is cautious on acquisitions and does not name any potential targets Vodafone is interested in the possibility of buying smaller Indian mobile operators if the New Delhi government relaxes rules that prohibit consolidation .
So while Mr Colao may be shrinking the Vodafone empire , he is also looking at how to strengthen the remaining parts .
Credit : By Andrew Parker
