Vodafone shares hit by watchdog alert
Vodafone 's shares fell almost 4 per cent yesterday as investors reacted to claims that regulators are preparing to take action that would cut the UK mobile group 's European core earnings by 11 per cent .
Analysts at Morgan Stanley downgraded their recommendation on Vodafone 's shares from " buy " to " sell " after concluding that intervention by the European Commission could reduce core profits at Vodafone 's European mobile businesses by Pounds 900m ( Dollars 1.78bn ) between 2009 and 2012 .
Meanwhile , Vodafone also had a further setback in its efforts to secure control of Vodacom , South Africa 's leading mobile operator .
Telkom , South Africa 's fixed line phone company , signalled it would not consider selling its 50 per cent stake in Vodacom to Vodafone " without a compelling strategic rationale " .
Vodafone owns the remainder of Vodacom .
Nick Delfas , analyst at Morgan Stanley , published a research note predicting that Viviane Reding , European commissioner for telecoms , could take action that would cut Vodafone 's earnings .
Vodafone 's shares closed down 3.89 per cent at 150.9p.
Mr Delfas highlighted Ms Reding 's interest in the case for reducing termination rates .
These are charges that mobile and fixed line phone operators impose on each other when connecting calls to their networks .
Mobile operators secure significant revenue from fixed line companies from termination rates because regulators currently allow the European wireless phone groups to charge almost nine times more on average than their wired rivals for connecting calls .
Mr Delfas said Ms Reding , together with national telecoms regulators , could insist on mobile termination rates coming down from an average of 9.67 euro cents per minute in 2007 to 2.5 euro cents by 2012 .
He estimated progressive cuts between 2009 and 2012 would reduce Vodafone 's European earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation by 11 per cent , or Pounds 900m .
That would equate to a 8 per cent cut in the group 's ebitda .
He also warned of a further threat by predicting that cuts in termination rates could unleash a price war .
Mr Delfas said the combined impact of cuts in rates and the price war could reduce a typical large mobile operator 's European cash flow by 39 per cent between 2009 and 2012 .
He accused analysts and investors of ignoring Ms Reding 's interest in termination rates , adding some had made the same mistake prior to her law that last year forced cuts in the cost of making mobile phone calls while abroad .
Ms Reding claims termination rates are de facto subsidies for the European mobile industry , and wants the charges to reflect the true costs of connecting calls to networks .
Terence Sinclair , analyst at Citi , disputed Morgan Stanley 's analysis , saying concerns were " misplaced " .
He estimated a 20 per cent fall in mobile termination rates would reduce Vodafone 's group earnings per share by less than 2 per cent .
