Vodafone 's new chief signals a more cautious approach to deals
Vittorio Colao , new chief executive of Vodafone , outlined a shift in strategy for the company yesterday by signalling a more cautious approach to deals compared with his predecessors .
He indicated that Vodafone 's expansion into developing countries may be close to completion by saying there were few new large markets of interest .
Vodafone 's shares closed up 6.2 per cent at 115p after the world 's largest mobile phone operator confirmed it would stick to its operating profit target of pound(s)11bn ( $16.9bn ) to pound(s)11.5bn for 2008-09 , albeit thanks to favourable exchange rate movements .
At Vodafone 's first-half results , Mr Colao also pleased investors by raising its target free cash flow - broadly operating cash flow minus some capital expenditure - for 2008-09 to pound(s)5.2bn-pound(s)5.7bn by cutting costs .
The previous target was pound(s)5.1bn-pound(s)5.6bn.
Mr Colao said any large acquisition would likely have to be funded through disposals .
Vodafone wants to see consolidation between mobile operators in its existing markets , notably Europe , and Mr Colao said it was willing , for the first time , to buy rivals .
However , he also said Vodafone might sell businesses .
Mr Colao 's comments contrasted with the ambitious acquisitions pursued by Christopher Gent and Arun Sarin , his predecessors .
The new chief is focused on maximising revenue opportunities in existing markets and cutting costs by pound(s)1bn by the 2010-2011 financial year .
He said he wanted to make Vodafone " simpler " and " faster " , to cope with rising economic , competitive and regulatory pressures .
" My ambition is to lead Vodafone in an industry I do believe is still attractive , and to fully explore during my tenure Vodafone 's strong advantages in brand , scale and assets , " he said .
Vodafone 's revenue rose 17.1 per cent to pound(s)19.9bn in the six months to September 30 .
Adjusted operating profit rose 10.5 per cent to pound(s)5.8bn , fuelled by sterling 's weakness .
On an underlying basis , operating profit fell 1 per cent .
Pre-tax profits fell 27.3 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn , partly because of pound(s)1.7bn impairment charge on Vodafone 's troubled Turkish business .
Mr Colao announced changes to Vodafone 's dividend policy by abandoning the practice of paying out 60 per cent of earnings .
Analysts expressed disappointment the dividend would likely be lower .
The interim dividend rose 3.2 per cent to 2.57p.
Lex , Page 14 Disciplined course , Page 17
Credit : By Andrew Parker in London
