Vodafone eyes selective deals
By ANDREW PARKER and PAUL TAYLOR
Vodafone is interested in more deals in emerging markets , the UK mobile phone group said yesterday as it reported a4 per cent increase in operating profit in 2006-07 .
The group 's shares closed up 5.5 per cent at 159.7p , their highest level since January 2002 , after Vodafone said operating profit would be potentially flat in 2007-08 .
The guidance was better than stock marketforecasts .
Vodafone has been at the centre of fevered market speculation about consolidation in the telecommunications sector .
But people close to AT&T dismissed market rumours that the US company was planning a bid for the UK group .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , insisted there was no logic to breaking up the group , and instead said it was willing to look at more selective acquisitions in Africa , Asia and eastern Europe .
Vodafone completed its third largest transaction earlier this month after paying Dollars 10.9bn ( Pounds 5.5bn ) for control of Hutchison Essar , the Indian mobileoperator .
Mr Sarin said Vodafone could be interested in buying the 50 per cent of its South African mobile joint venture that it does not own .
Telkom , South Africa 's leading telecoms company that owns the other 50 per cent of Vodacom , is reviewing its participation in the venture .
Mr Sarin said : " If they come to us and say would we be interested , we will certainly look at that asset . "
With net debt at Pounds 24.1bn on a pro forma basis following the Hutchison Essar transaction , Vodafone is willing to see its A- credit rating go to BBB+ temporarily if it identifies an appropriate target in emerging markets .
Vodafone reported revenue of Pounds 31.1bn for 2006-07 , up 4.3 per cent on an organic basis , and adjusted operating profit of Pounds 9.5bn , up 4.2 per cent .
It recorded a pre-tax loss of Pounds 2.4bn , partly because of Pounds 11.6bn of impairment charges that reflected fierce competition and regulatory pressure in some of its core European markets .
The full year dividend was 6.76p , up 11.4 per cent .
Investors welcomed how Vodafone will over the next two years raise its dividend above a payout target of 60 per cent of adjusted earnings per share .
The move will offset the dilutive earnings impact of the Hutchison Essar transaction .
