Vodafone keeps eye on India for growth Investors are worried about costs , write Andrew Parker , Kate Burgess and Jo Johnson
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , knows India well .
He was born and grew up there , and graduated in engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in Kharagpur .
During the 1990s he was president of AirTouch Communications , the US mobile operator that subsequently merged with Vodafone .
In 1995 he unveiled AirTouch 's purchase of a minority stake in RPG , one of India 's mobile operators , which Vodafone later sold .
In 2005 , Vodafone bought a 10 per cent stake in Bharti Airtel , India 's leading mobile operator .
Last month Mr Sarin reiterated Vodafone 's ambitions to increase its stake in Bharti Airtel , given India has the fastest growing mobile market in the world .
He also appeared to insist that it was possible for Vodafone to eventually secure control of Bharti Airtel .
" India is a large country .
We have taken an interest in the number one player , which is growing very rapidly . . . over the next several years we might find interesting ways in joining hands and increasing our share , " he said .
However , Sunil Bharti Mittal , chairman of Bharti Enterprises and founder of Bharti Airtel , is reluctant to let Vodafone increase its stake , let alone take control .
Vodafone 's board last night gave the go-ahead for an offer to be made for Hutchison Essar , India 's fourth largest mobile phone operator .
Vodafone is eyeing deals in emerging markets bec-ause it is keen to boost the group 's slowing revenue growth and declining profit margins .
At its interim results in November , Sir John Bond , Vodafone 's chairman , app-eared to put his support behind such deals .
He highlighted how emerging markets were expected to make up 70 per cent of the growth in mobile handset sales over the next five to 10 years .
Bankers say Sir John is unhappy that Vodafone may have boxed itself into a minority stake in Bharti Airtel and is looking for change .
Hutchison Telecommunications International 's app-arent willingness to sellits 67 per cent stake in Hutchison Essar , albeit at the right price , provides Vodafone with an attractive opportunity because the four major players in India 's mobile market are fairly evenly matched .
Bharti Airtel has a 22 per cent share of subscribers , Reliance Communications 21 per cent , BSNL 19 per cent and Hutchison Essar 17 per cent .
The risks for Vodafone are considerable .
It could antagonise its investors if it pays a high price for Hutchison Essar .
Some of Vodafone 's investors became angry after the group warned in November of slowing revenue growth .
Their concerns were intensified by Vodafone 's deals , notably in Turkey .
Some investors thought the group overpaid for Telsim , Turkey 's second largest mobile operator , which was bought for Dollars 4.6bn.
Vodafone could end up paying a steep price for growth .
At an enterprise value of Dollars 14bn , Vodafone would be paying 14 times Hutchison Essar 's forecast 2007 earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation ( ebitda ) .
That compares to trading multiples of 11 times 2007 ebitda for Bharti Airtel and Reliance .
Vodafone is trading on between five and six times .
Vodafone could find itself in a bidding war with Reliance , which has been talking to private equity firms about making a Dollars 14bn offer .
The company would be keen to avoid a repeat of its ill-fated attempt to buy AT&T Wireless in 2004 .
It made a Dollars 38bn offer , but was trumped at the last minute by Cingular .
Lord MacLaurin , Vodafone 's former chairman , admitted after the failed bid that it had damaged the group 's relations with investors .
The group 's shares fell in the immediate aftermath .
But Vodafone 's inv-estors reacted cautiously but positively to a possible offer for Hutchison Essar .
" This is an on-strategy acquisition , " one shareholder said .
Another shareholder said Vodafone 's acquisition rec-ord was not covered in glory , but added that investors would give the group the benefit of the doubt on Hutchison Essar .
The shareholder said relations with the group remained fragile .
" The price paid is key .
There is a degree of rehabilitation but if Arun Sarin is seen doing something egregious , the goodwill would dissipate fast . "
Investors have been partly won over by Vodafone 's improving stock price over the past four months .
They have also been reassured by Sir John 's appointment as chairman .
As former chairman of HSBC , the international bank with a leading position in Asia , he won a reputation as a tough businessman who made shrewd acquisitions in emerging markets .
