Vodafone hints at Japan sale
* Mobile phone group will ' listen ' if approach is made
* Subscriber figures for first quarter grow by 35 %
Vodafone , the world 's largest mobile phone operator , yesterday hinted that it would consider selling its troubled Japanese business if the new management team failed to turn it around .
Arun Sarin , chief executive , said he would " obviously listen " if the company received an approach , but insisted he was happy with the new management team under Bill Morrow , the former head of the UK business who was parachuted into the troubled subsidiary three months ago .
" The management team in Japan is doing a very good job and we are on track with the turnround programme , " Mr Sarin said .
He has promised to turn the business around by the end of the current financial year , which runs to March 2006 .
Mr Sarin also reiterated his desire to take control of Polkomtel , Poland 's third largest operator , in which Vodafone has a 19.6 per cent stake , but said there had been no progress in talks with the other shareholders , which include the Polish government .
The comments came as the company reported subscriber growth figures for the first quarter to the end of June .
Vodafone beat market expectations by adding 4.1m net subscribers in the quarter through organic growth , a rise of 35 per cent .
It was Vodafone 's strongest quarter for organic growth since 2000 .
Analysts had forecast net additions before acquisitions of 3.1m.
Mr Sarin said this equated to revenue growth of 8.6 per cent , towards the top end of its guidance given this year , and the group reiterated its guidance for the year .
The 6m customers added following two acquisitions in Romania and the Czech Republic take Vodafone 's proportionate customer base ( allowing for its share in joint ventures minority holdings ) to more than 165m .
Mr Sarin said growth of its latest 3G handsets was " building momentum " with more than 1m registered devices added in the quarter , bringing the group total to 3.3m ( including more than 300,000 data cards ) .
The global scale of Vodafone 's business means its figures are closely watched by the industry and investors , amid concerns that operators will struggle to secure a decent return on the tens of billions of dollars spent on rolling out 3G .
Vodafone reported strong performances in Spain and Germany where it has full ownership as well as at Verizon Wireless in the US , in which it has a 44 per cent stake .
Lex , Page 20 Eircom deal , Page 22 Cheap mobiles , Page 27 BellSouth hurt , Page 30
