Vodafone writes down $5.9bn
Southern Europe woes take gloss off buyback ; Verizon Wireless stake brings pound(s)2.4bn windfall
Vodafone has been forced to write down almost pound(s)6bn from its operations in economically ravaged countries in southern Europe , taking the shine off a pound(s)2.4bn cash dividend from its stake in Verizon Wireless in the US .
The company will return more than 60 per cent of that dividend to shareholders through a pound(s)1.5bn share buyback .
The Verizon dividend is the second annual payout from the US mobile operator that resumed distributions last year .
However , shares in Vodafone fell almost 3 per cent yesterday to 162.5p after it revealed a further deterioration in many of Europe 's mobile telephony markets that resulted in a pound(s)492m pre-tax loss .
The company admitted its performance in the first half had been " slightly below our expectations " .
It said business conditions would be similar in the second half .
Service revenues - adjusted for acquisition activity and foreign exchange - declined by 0.4 per cent to pound(s)20.2bn , dragged down by a fall of almost 10 per cent in revenues in southern Europe , where its businesses in Spain , Italy and Greece are fighting against worsening economic conditions .
On a reported basis , group revenue was down 7.4 per cent to pound(s)21.8bn.
Vodafone has been forced to shoulder impairments of pound(s)5.9bn for Spain and Italy , blaming " challenging market conditions and changes to discount rates " .
The pre-tax loss of pound(s)492m compares with an pound(s)8bn profit last year .
The company reported a basic loss per share of 4.01p.
Adjusted operating profit improved , rising 8.5 per cent to pound(s)6.2bn.
Vodafone gave guidance that it would end up in the upper half of the forecast range for the full year .
The brightest parts of Vodafone 's first-half performance came from the US , where Verizon Wireless reported better than expected figures , and its emerging markets business .
Vittorio Colao , chief executive , said he was " very comfortable " with maintaining the stake in Verizon Wireless in reaction to suggestions by analysts that now would be a good time to sell .
He said the company needed to further reduce its cost base in Europe , with the intention to at least maintain the level of dividends .
The interim dividend of 3.27p a share has been raised 7.2 per cent .
Vodafone is confident it can use capital allowances acquired with Cable & Wireless Worldwide for the UK business .
The company has not provisioned for any loss in a long-running tax case in India , saying it was confident of success .
Robin Bienenstock , analyst at Bernstein , said there were poor numbers in " pretty much every region 's top and bottom lines " .
Vodafone said data revenues rose by 13.7 per cent .
However , revenues from voice and text fell in the period .
Lex , Page 16 Lombard , Page 18
Credit : By Daniel Thomas
