Vodafone reveals plan for pound(s)1bn share buy-back
MOBILE & TELECOMS
Vodafone has taken the unusual step of revealing a pound(s)1bn share buy-back in immediate response to the record sell-off of its stock after Tuesday 's revenue warning .
The world 's largest mobile phone operator by revenue was hit by the largest one- day decline in its shares on Tuesday .
The stock fell almost 14 per cent after Vodafone said the economic downturn was hurting its Spanish and UK businesses .
Announcing the pound(s)1bn share buy-back yesterday , the company said : " This action reflects the board 's belief that the share price significantly undervalues Vodafone . "
Vodafone 's shares rose 1.9 per cent to 131.4p.
Graham Secker , equity strategist at Morgan Stanley , said Vodafone 's share buyback , while unusual , may be well timed .
Research undertaken by Mr Secker last year found that buy-backs , while having little or no impact in a bull market , did support share prices in a bear scenario .
The fall in Vodafone 's shares was driven partly by heightened fears that telecoms stocks are no longer safe havens in a downturn .
Vodafone scaled back its revenue forecast for 2008-09 at its first-quarter trading update , partly because some people were delaying upgrades of mobile phones .
But before Tuesday 's sell-off , Vodafone 's shares had already fallen 20 per cent this year , in line with the telecoms sector .
The fall is partly due to a statement in January from AT&T , the largest US telecoms company , which said that it was having to cut off customers who were failing to pay bills amid deteriorating economic conditions .
Mr Secker noted that the UK mobile industry had never been tested in a recession , given that the previous one was in the early 1990s , when the wireless phone sector was in its infancy .
Vodafone 's new buy-back will be financed through existing banking facilities .
On March 31 , Vodafone had net debt of pound(s)25.2bn.
Standard & Poor 's , the ratings agency , said Vodafone 's ratings were unchanged by the buy-back , but added : " A weakening of operating performance . . . or any future revision of guidance for 2009 , could put pressure on the ratings and outlook . "
See Lombard
Credit : By Andrew Parker
