Vodafone set to slip down the rankings in its home market
mobile & telecoms ; News analysis ; The likely shake-up in the UK causes discomfort for world 's biggest mobile group , says Andrew Parker
The likely consolidation of the British mobile phone industry is causing much discomfort for Vodafone in its home market .
Vodafone 's UK business was the market leader as recently as 2006 , but it has been overtaken by O2 , the mobile operator owned by Spain 's Telefonica .
If the competition authorities approve plans for a merger between France Telecom 's Orange UK and Deutsche Telekom 's TMobile UK , the new entity would become the market leader , with O2 in second place .
Vodafone - the world 's largest mobile operator by revenue because of its mobile businesses scattered across the globe - would become the number three in its home market .
Ben Wood , analyst at CCS Insight , said Vodafone would be the biggest loser from a merger between Orange UK and T-Mobile UK , which are the third and fourth-largest mobile operators respectively .
" Having once dominated the UK market , Vodafone finds itself in third position , " he said .
" With its global headquarters based in the UK , this will be a bitter pill to swallow . "
Analysts identified two deal-making possibilities for Vodafone following Tuesday 's announcement that France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom are proposing to put their UK mobile assets into a joint venture .
First , Vodafone could gatecrash the merger plans by making a higher offer for T-Mobile UK .
Vodafone and Telefonica made informal offers of about pound(s)4bn for T-Mobile UK last month , but they were deemed too low by Deutsche Telekom .
Second , Vodafone could buy 3 , the UK 's fifth mobile operator , which is owned by Hong Kong 's Hutchison Whampoa .
3 is markedly smaller than the " big four " UK mobile operators , and has a 9 per cent share of revenue paid by British mobile phone users .
It has yet to record a pre-tax profit .
Vodafone yesterday played down the prospect of doing deals in the UK .
" Our UK business is and will continue to be a very strong participant in its market and our focus is on returning to organic growth , " it said .
Guy Laurence , head of Vodafone 's UK business , told staff in an e-mail on Tuesday that the likely price sought by Deutsche Telekom for T-Mobile UK " made it preferable to continue with our current structure " .
He suggested Vodafone had an opportunity because Orange UK and T-Mobile UK would be distracted by the merger plans .
Mr Laurence also implied Vodafone , once the UK market leader , must adopt an underdog mentality to halt its falling sales and earnings .
" I 've always said that we need to approach the UK market with a challenger spirit - so we will continue to execute our strategy with speed , simplicity and trust to outperform our competitors , " he said .
Meanwhile , analysts said O2 's chances of retaining its status as the exclusive UK network for Apple 's popular iPhone have been diminished by the merger plans involving Orange UK and T-Mobile UK .
Apple could decide its interests are best served by letting Orange UK and T-Mobile UK sell the iPhone .
Assuming France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom finalise their merger plans , much time will then be devoted to lobbying the competition authorities .
The regulators will subject the merger to intense scrutiny , given the concern that mobile consolidation could result in higher prices for consumers .
The French and German companies are expected to argue that the pound(s)3.5bn ( $5.8bn ) of cost savings sought in the merger should enable higher investment in networks that will support web surfing and other data activities on mobile phones and laptops .
The argument should get a sympathetic hearing with the UK government , because its Digital Britain initiative is partly focused on providing broadband internet access to all homes by 2012 .
