Vodafone joins fight to become leader in mobile phone services
Vodafone is likely to do more acquisitions to beef up its internet services for mobile phone customers , according to people familiar with the situation .
Though the scale of the initial purchases will probably be small , Arun Sarin , Vodafone chief executive , is hoping to calm fears that the world 's largest mobile operator could lose out in the scramble over the mobile internet .
Vodafone this month made its maiden wireless internet deal by agreeing to pay Pounds 25m for Zyb , a Danish social networking company .
Its annual results , released tomorrow , will underline how the mobile internet is starting to make a significant contribution to its revenue as the company joins a number of large groups that are fighting it out to establish leading positions in mobile services .
At the company 's interim results in November , Vodafone said it had generated Pounds 1bn of revenue from customers using mobiles for data functions such as web surfing .
That revenue is largely derived from giving customers access to the wireless internet , but the company is raising its game in mobile services , so as to secure additional sales .
Two people familiar with the situation said Vodafone was expected to make more acquisitions in mobile internet services , with similar valuations to Zyb , during the coming year .
Zyb enables mobile customers to back up their handsets ' contacts books and photographs online , with the opportunity to share the information with friends .
The strategic interest from Vodafone comes as Nokia , the world 's leading mobile phone manufacturer , is investing heavily in building wireless internet services .
Last October Nokia announced its largest-ever deal by agreeing to buy Navteq , a US mapping and navigation company , for Dollars 8.1bn ( Pounds 4.1bn ) .
Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo , Nokia chief executive , said in December the company should secure " billions of euros " from mobile services such as maps and music .
Meanwhile , Google , the world 's leading internet search company , is pushing to dominate the selling of advertising on the mobile internet , just as it has done on the fixed-line internet .
At an industry conference in February , Mr Sarin insisted Vodafone was well placed to secure a significant share of revenue from mobile internet services by saying fixed-line participants would find it difficult in the " more complicated " wireless world .
Three days later Vodafone announced it was poaching Pieter Knook , a senior Microsoft executive , to head its newly formed internet services unit .
Vodafone 's acquisition activity is not confined to mobile internet services , with the company making bolder moves in fixed-line services .
Some analysts say Vodafone is in pole position to buy Tiscali , the Milan-listed company that supplies fixed-line broadband services in the UK and Italy and has a market capitalisation of Euros 1.4bn ( Pounds 1.1bn ) .
If Vodafone buys Tiscali , it would have fixed-line broadband operations in all four of its core European markets : Germany , Italy , Spain and the UK .
In May 2006 , when Vodafone announced it was moving beyond a mobile-centric strategy to supply customers with fixed-line broadband , Mr Sarin said the company would pursue an " asset- light " strategy .
That implied that Vodafone would mostly supply fixed-line internet access through wholesale contracts with other telecommunications companies .
But last October Vodafone agreed to buy the Italian and Spanish fixed-line broadband units of Tele2 , the Swedish telecoms company , for Euros 775m .
Last week Vodafone agreed to pay Euros 474m to buy out minority shareholders at Arcor , its German fixed-line broadband unit .
At its annual results for 2007-08 tomorrow , analysts expect Vodafone to report revenue of Pounds 35.2bn to Pounds 35.4bn , adjusted operating profit of Pounds 9.9bn to Pounds 10bn and free cash flow of Pounds 5bn .
Vodafone 's shares have fallen almost 20 per cent since November 's interim results , partly because investors fear telecoms companies ' sales will be hit by the global economic downturn .
But Vodafone 's shares have also declined because of concerns that regulators will insist on mobile operators making large cuts in the charges they levy on rival companies for connecting calls to their networks .
The charges are called mobile termination rates , and Morgan Stanley analysts , who have a " sell " rating on Vodafone , estimate they represent 20 per cent of the company 's European free cash flow .
