Vodafone defends stake
Vodafone conceded yesterday there was " no absolute guarantee " it would receive dividends from Verizon Wireless , the second-largest US mobile operator , in two years ' time .
The world 's largest mobile phone group by revenue has been reassuring investors about the merits of retaining its minority stake in Verizon Wireless by stating dividend payments could resume in about two years .
ECS , a rebel Vodafone shareholder , is urging investors to support a resolution at the UK company 's annual meeting next Tuesday calling for the 45 per cent stake to be spun off .
ECS argues Verizon Wireless is a " passive investment " for Vodafone because it last received a dividend in 2004-05 , worth Pounds 923m .
Andy Halford , Vodafone 's chief financial officer , said there was a " strong logic " to a resumption of dividend payments because Verizon Wireless should be free of debt in 2009 .
But he added : " There is no absolute guarantee whatever that we will get a dividend flow at that point .
It hasto be something mutually agreed by us and Verizon . "
He acknowledged dividends could be reduced or delayed beyond 2009 if Verizon Wireless chose to buy additional mobile spectrum or embarked on deals .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , hinted he was confident that a majority of investors would on Tuesday reject the ECS resolution calling for the company to spin off the Verizon Wireless stake .
ECS said it was securing " good support " for its Verizon Wireless resolution , particularly from US investors .
Mr Sarin said Vodafone continually looked at its strategy on Verizon Wireless , but highlighted how the US mobile operator was performing strongly and that Vodafone 's stake would continue to increase in value .
Vodafone and Verizon Communications , the US telecoms company that owns55 per cent of Verizon Wireless , have been unable to resolve an impasse over the mobile operator .
Verizon Communications wants full ownership of Verizon Wireless , but has failed to interest Vodafone in selling its stake .
The Financial Times ' FT Alphaville website revealed on Monday that Vodafone and its advisers had mulled over a bid for Verizon Communications , as part of an options review , although the UK company later said there were no plans to make an offer .
Mr Sarin said yesterday that Vodafone 's board had not considered making a bid .
Publishing figures for the three months to June 30 , Vodafone said it generated revenue of Pounds 8.3bn , up 4 per cent on an organic basis .
Several analysts described the figures as " solid " .
