Vodafone ponders Tiscali bid as deadline looms
By ADRIAN MICHAELS and PHILIP STAFFORD
Vodafone is considering joining the bidding for Tiscali as the Italian telecoms group set a deadline of May 5 for initial non-binding offers .
A number of companies are expected to review a bid for the Cagliari-based group , which could be attractive to larger companies that want to increase their share in the Italian and UK fixed-line broadband markets .
A person familiar with the situation said Vodafone was considering bidding for both the whole group or just its UK assets .
Vodafone already has interests in Italy , having agreed last October to buy the Italian broadband business owned by Tele2 , the country 's fifth-largest internet access provider .
Vodafone said it would not comment on speculation .
Tiscali has previously indicated that it would prefer not to break itself up .
However , analysts have cautioned that few companies would be keen to acquire the whole group given the little overlap between its UK and Italian assets .
The May 5 deadline was only indicative , the people close to the company said , and Tiscali was not in a hurry to make a sale .
In the UK , BT Group , British Sky Broadcasting and Carphone Warehouse are considering bidding for the UK division , which has a 15 per cent market share and is expected to generate 69 per cent of Tiscali 's group revenue in 2008 and 76 per cent of its earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation .
Investment bankers studying the situation said that Italy 's Wind would also take a look at Tiscali 's Italian division , which has only a 6 per cent market share .
Telecom Italia and Fastweb are also interested in Tiscali .
However , advisers to some of the interested companies cautioned yesterday that Tiscali 's market capitalisation of about Euros 1.2bn ( Dollars 1.9bn ) implied that bids needed to be higher than would be reached under industry average subscriber acquisition costs .
A buyer would , therefore , need to find substantial synergies , they said .
Tommaso Pompei , Tiscali 's previous chief executive , quit recently in a dispute with directors over strategy , though he had laid the foundations for a turnround in the company 's fortunes .
