Vodafone in consolidation call
Chief executive sees tie-up advantages ; Focus on savings for mobile operators
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , has made a passionate case for consolidation in the UK mobile phone market , saying that the current arrangements hurt profitability .
Although he declined to comment on Vodafone 's interest in buying T-Mobile UK , Mr Colao was " positive " about consolidation because it should enable mobile operators to secure cost savings .
Analysts said that they regarded Mr Colao 's comments as preparing the ground for Vodafone to launch a bid for T-Mobile , which is valued at EUR3bn-EUR4bn ( pound(s)2.6bn-pound(s)3.5bn ) .
Vodafone 's weakness in the UK mobile market was highlighted yesterday in the company 's first-quarter trading update .
Although Vodafone 's group revenue performance slightly exceeded expectations , underlying sales in Europe fell 4.4 per cent in the three months to June 30 compared with the same period last year .
In the UK , underlying sales fell 4.7 per cent .
Mr Colao admitted that Vodafone , the UK 's second-largest operator , was being " hurt " by its failure to secure a deal with Apple to sell its iPhone in Britain .
O2 , the largest operator owned by Telefonica , has entrenched its position by becoming the exclusive British network for the iPhone .
Deutsche Telekom is contemplating selling T-Mobile , its UK subsidiary and the fourth-largest operator , after years of underperformance , and Vodafone and Telefonica are considering making offers .
Mr Colao described the UK mobile market as " inefficient " and highlighted how the five operators , partly because of fierce competition , had markedly lower profit margins compared with the Continent .
UK margins are about 25 per cent , which is 11 percentage points lower than the European average .
Mr Colao said that the real benefit of consolidation for operators would be found in reduced operating expenditure rather than higher prices for customers .
" The benefit is much more at the cost level than the revenue level , " he said .
" It is much more avoiding duplication and optimising the resources in the system . "
Mr Colao addressed potential objections by regulators to how Vodafone or Telefonica , if one of them bought T-Mobile , could secure a 40 per cent market share of revenue paid by British mobile phone users .
He highlighted how leading operators in other European countries had market shares of 40 per cent .
Vodafone reported group revenue of pound(s)10.7bn for the first quarter , up 9.3 per cent , largely because of sterling 's weakness against the euro .
On an underlying basis , group revenue fell 2.1 per cent , partly because customers are spending less in the recession .
The group stuck by its previous guidance of generating pound(s)11bn-pound(s)11.8bn of operating profit in 2009-10 , which would at best be a flat performance on 2008-09 .
Credit : By Andrew Parker
