Vodafone buys Ghana Telecom stake
MOBILE & TELECOMS
Vodafone , the world 's biggest mobile phone company , yesterday agreed to buy a 70 per cent stake in Ghana Telecom for $900m , gaining a controlling stake in Africa 's eighth largest mobile network .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's outgoing chief executive , described Ghana as " one of the most attractive markets in Africa " and pointed to mobile subscriptions rising at more than 55 per cent a year , while mobile penetration is a low 35 per cent .
The government of Ghana was one of the first countries in sub-Saharan Africa to undertake a programme of liberalisation in the telecommunications sector .
Ghana Telecom operates the country 's third largest mobile carrier , with 1.4m customers and a one-third market share , and a fixed-line service , while a fibre optic network that covers urban areas such as Accra has also been included in the deal .
Ghana Telecom posted 2007 earnings before interest , taxes , depreciation and amortisation of $42m on sales of $290m , Vodafone said .
Ghana 's ruling New Patriotic party has been keen to finalise the sale of Ghana Telecom ahead of elections in December .
In spite of a reputation as one of the best-run economies in Africa , the government has a growing budget deficit .
Analysts say the sale of Ghana Telecom will provide some relief for the government ahead of the campaign period .
The prospect of oil wealth has turned the polls into one of the highest-stakes contests since independence in 1957 .
Whoever wins will oversee Ghana 's entry into the club of significant African crude exporters from newly discovered offshore oilfields .
Ghana Telecom reported revenue growth of 9.3 per cent in the 12 months ended December 31 last year to $290m and earnings of $42m .
John Davies , an analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort in London , said the few numbers available and government ownership had made it difficult to value .
" Vodafone appears to have paid a high price , based on a trailing earnings multiple of 30 times , " he said .
" But , in a Vodafone context , $900m is a small percentage of its market capitalisation .
It 's more about what you can do with it in the next two to three years , " he said .
Mr Sarin has identified Africa as one of Vodafone 's key targets for growth , having expanded its position in India last year .
The Ghanaian government will retain a 30 per cent stake .
Ghana Telecom will also invest more than $500m in its operations and network .
Vodafone shares closed down 0.4p at 152p .
Credit : By Philip Stafford in London and Matthew Green in Lagos
