Vodafone outperforms falling FTSE amid fresh takeover talk
london
Vodafone outperformed a falling London market yesterday on a revival of speculation that it might be a takeover target for Verizon , its US partner .
A $100bn valuation gap had opened up between the two based on their share of the Verizon Wireless joint venture that left Vodafone looking undervalued , Morgan Stanley said .
" The classical resolution would be for the more highly-rated company to buy out the weaker . "
Investors have long called for Vodafone and Verizon to merge , or for Vodafone to sell its 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless .
But the valuation discrepancy means a merger of equals would be unattractive to Vodafone shareholders , while the tax implications complicated any stake sale , Morgan Stanley said .
Instead , said the broker , Verizon could in theory raise $100bn in debt to buy Vodafone - though it conceded raising this sum would be a challenge .
Morgan Stanley repeated an " overweight " rating and 210p price target on Vodafone shares , which closed up 2.1 per cent at 170 3/4 p.
Separately , Goldman Sachs added Vodafone to its " conviction buy " list in a note distributed overnight .
Miners led the wider market lower after BHP Billiton ' s head of iron ore said Chinese demand was slowing down .
Ian Ashby told an industry conference that BHP was reviewing capital expenditure , as demand growth from China would soon hit " single digits , if it 's not already there " .
BHP lost 4.1 per cent to pound(s)19.65 , while Rio Tinto was down 4.2 per cent to pound(s)34.65 and Anglo American fell 4.1 per cent to pound(s)25.05.
The FTSE 100 closed 1.2 per cent or 69.70 points lower at 5,891.41 as miners provided eight of its top 10 fallers .
Engineers and capital goods makers also followed the market trend , with IMI losing 3.8 per cent to 965 1/2 p and Invensys off 4.1 per cent to 201 1/4 p.
BarCap , downgrading its sector view to " neutral " , said the market had already anticipated an earnings recovery during the second half , even though this was not yet reflected in consensus forecasts .
Chip designer Arm Holdings , a beneficiary of strong first-day demand for Apple 's latest iPad , rose 0.8 per cent to 584 1/2 p following upgrades from both BarCap and Investec Securities .
" Arm shares performed weakly over the past year as the market digested its prospects in the PC market and earnings momentum slowed , " BarCap said .
" With continued upside being seen in the smartphone and tablet segments , and Arm retaining its strong position in both , despite threats from Intel , we see around 10 per cent upside to consensus estimates for 2012-13 . "
With defensive stocks in favour , Whitbread took on 0.5 per cent to pound(s)17.30.
Morgan Stanley , Whitbread 's house broker , said the shares offered 75 per cent potential upside if the company spun off its Costa coffee chain and started a rolling pound(s)250m a year sale-and-leaseback of hotels .
" We think the arguments for retaining Costa are thinning , given the business is now large enough and cash generative enough to be separately listed , at a time when quick service restaurants multiples are close to record highs , " Morgan Stanley said .
It put a value on the chain of pound(s)1.25bn.
C&W Worldwide rallied 8.9 per cent to 38p on a report that Tata Communications was to make a formal cash offer for the group .
The story was played down by people familiar with the situation , who said nothing had been decided ahead of a Takeover Panel deadline of March 29 .
Babcock International climbed 3.9 per cent to 772 1/2 p as JP Morgan Cazenove recommended the defence outsourcer ahead of a trading statement due next week .
Exillon Energy fell a further 8.1 per cent to 188 1/2 p as analyst downgrades followed Monday 's weaker- than-expected results and production delay from the Russian oil explorer .
Profit-taking sent Regus sliding 7.8 per cent to 104p after it gave an unchanged outlook statement , with the serviced office provider yet to see improved pricing power this year .
Gem Diamonds gained 6.9 per cent to 300 1/2 p after its full-year earnings beat forecasts , thanks largely to lower costs .
Among small caps , Falkland Oil & Gas rose 5.7 per cent to 64 1/2 p after selling an option to invest in its exploration licence areas to a group it did not name .
Biggest movers , Page 29 Small caps report : www.ft.com / equities
Credit : By Bryce Elder
