Vodafone to reinvest Verizon dividend
MOBILE & TELECOMS ; Windfall for investors ruled out ; Europe weakness drags on revenues
Vodafone is to plough back a pound(s)2.1bn dividend from US telecoms group Verizon into its business rather than offer shareholders a windfall , after the UK mobile operator reported its biggest annual fall in service revenues in five years .
Vittorio Colao , chief executive , blamed weakness in southern European markets for revenues for the year to March 31 falling to pound(s)44.4bn , down 4.2 per cent - or pound(s)2bn - from the previous year .
" We have faced headwinds from a combination of continued tough economic conditions , particularly in southern Europe , and an adverse European regulatory environment , " he said .
Vodafone has been one of the biggest victims of Europe 's lacklustre mobile markets , which have come under intense competitive and regulatory pressure .
It blamed regulatory cuts to mobile termination rates - wholesale charges to rival providers for connecting calls - as well as the continued decline in voice revenues .
Andy Halford , chief financial officer , said the effect of mobile termination rate cuts had been more severe in the past quarter .
" The macroeconomic environment is what is hurting us most , especially in southern Europe . "
Conditions in that region were so dismal that Vodafone was forced to book a pound(s)7.7bn impairment relating to its businesses in Italy and Spain , where service revenues contracted 12.8 per cent and 11.5 per cent , respectively .
" The reason for it is largely the economic environment .
It is an exercise that we have to do each half year , " said Mr Halford .
Mr Colao declined to confirm speculation Vodafone was poised to sell its 45 per cent stake in Verizon .
" Verizon Wireless is a fantastic asset that generates a lot of cash .
If we have to update the market , then we will . "
Verizon has been increasingly vocal this year about its desire to buy out Vodafone from the joint venture , a stake that Goldman Sachs analysts have valued at $115bn post-tax .
Vodafone said that the pound(s)2.1bn Verizon dividend was " to be retained in the business for general business purposes , including spectrum costs " - a move that quashes speculation of a new share buyback scheme after the current programme expires in July .
For the 12 months to March 31 , Vodafone reported that pre-tax profit slipped from pound(s)9.6bn to pound(s)3.3bn.
Excluding the impact of exceptional charges , adjusted operating profit rose 9.3 per cent year on year to pound(s)12bn .
Diluted earnings per share contracted from 13.65p to 0.87p , and a final dividend of 6.92p was proposed compared with 6.47p last year , bringing the total payout for the year to 10.19p , up 7 per cent .
In London , Vodafone shares closed 1.2 per cent higher at 199.9p.
See Lex
Credit : By Mark Wembridge in London
