Vodafone forecasts Verizon dividend
By ANDREW PARKER and PAUL TAYLOR
Vodafone has signalled that it expects to start receiving dividends again from Verizon Wireless next year .
Verizon Wireless , the second-biggest US mobile operator , emerged last week as the highest bidder in a radio spectrum auction , prompting fresh questions about when the company would resume making dividend payments .
The UK mobile phone group has a 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , with the remainder held by Verizon Communications , the US telecommunications group .
Last Thursday regulators announced that Verizon Wireless had agreed to pay Dollars 9.4bn ( Pounds 4.7bn ) for spectrum , which should enhance its mobile broadband services .
That sum exceeded some analysts ' expectations and could increase Verizon Wireless ' debt position to an estimated Dollars 17bn to Dollars 20bn .
Verizon Wireless last issued dividends in 2005 , when Vodafone received Pounds 923m .
The payments dried up after Verizon Communications decided to use Verizon Wireless ' cash flow to pay down the mobile operator 's debt .
Verizon Communications has management control of Verizon Wireless and yesterday it declined to spell out a timetable for the resumption of dividend payments .
It said : " The cash distribution policy for 2009 and beyond will be made by the Verizon Wireless board , which will assess a whole range of factors in making its decisions on timing . "
Vodafone signalled that it was sticking by its assertion of last year that the world 's largest mobile group by revenue should receive dividends sometime next year .
" We have not changed our expectations for when dividends will resume , " it said .
Terence Sinclair , analyst at Citi , said : " We expect dividend payments to resume towards the end of 2009 , but not at the level seen in 2005 .
It is 2010 before Verizon Wireless pays about Pounds 1bn or more to Vodafone . "
Vodafone 's minority stake in Verizon Wireless has caused friction between the UK group and some of its investors .
Last year ECS , a rebel shareholder , called for the stake to be spun off , but that idea was rejected by most investors at Vodafone 's 2007 annual meeting .
Verizon Wireless ' debt stood at about Dollars 10bn before it announced plans last July to buy Rural Cellular , a smaller US mobile operator , in a Dollars 2.7bn deal .
The transaction , which has yet to close , includes the assumption of some debt .
Shares in Vodafone close up 2.6p at 151.9p.
