Vodafone in Dollars 4.6bn Telsim deal *UK telecommunications group outbids five competitors *Deal ' will dilute earnings for five years ' *Reserve price was Dollars 2.8bn
Vodafone won the auction for Turkey 's second largest mobile phone operator yesterday , saying the Dollars 4.55bn ( Pounds 2.57bn ) deal would dilute its earnings for up to five years but raise its longer- term growth profile .
The news came a month after a warning on falling profit margins hit shares in the UK group by nearly 11 per cent .
Yesterday , they fell another 3 1/2p to 124 3/4p as the price paid for the assets of Telsim took investors and analysts by surprise .
Some bankers had warned earlier that any price over Dollars 3bn would be seen as an overpayment .
Vodafone 's move into one of the few European telecommunications markets with substantial growth potential came after it beat four Middle Eastern operators - MTC , Etisalat , Orascom and Emaar - and Russia 's Sistema .
The UK group made the highest sealed bid and then won the short second-round bidding process in a televised auction .
The reserve price had been Dollars 2.8bn.
Arun Sarin , Vodafone chief executive , said the Turkish mobile market represented " a major growth opportunity".Turkey was Europe 's second most populous country after Germany , he said , and there were just 53 handsets per 100 people , compared with penetration rates of 101 per cent in the UK and85 per cent in Germany .
Telsim had revenues of just Dollars 712m in 2004 and earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation of Dollars 87m , but Vodafone said the acquisition price would equate to less than five times ebitda within five years .
Vodafone , which will also invest more than Dollars 1bn to make up for past under-investment in customer service and Telsim 's network , said the Turkish company would make net losses " in the short to medium term " .
Analysts in Istanbul said Vodafone 's arrival in the Turkish market would boost competition and pose a challenge for Turkcell , the dominant operator with an estimated two-thirds of the market .
The task facing Vodafone is considerable , however , as Turkcell has 25.6m customers , three times as many as Telsim 's 8.2m.
Turkcell 's shares fell nearly 7 per cent on the Istanbul stock market , which closed 1.2 per cent lower .
Vodafone is acquiring Telsim without its liabilities , and the deal rescues the Turkish operator from a legal limbo .
It was among assets acquired by the Turkish government early last year when it seized control of companies owned by the Uzan family , once one of the wealthiest in Turkey .
Most of the proceeds of the Telsim sale will go towards settling the Uzan companies ' debts with the state but a substantial portion above the reserve price of Dollars 2.8bn will be paid to Motorola and Nokia , the US and Finnish telecoms equipment makers , to settle debts owed them by the Uzan group .
