Vodafone boosts full-year guidance
mobile & telecoms
Vodafone raised its outlook for full-year operating profit on the back of a stronger performance than expected in most of its big markets , which outweighed a pound(s)450m charge in its embattled Greek operations .
The mobile group 's results highlighted the disparity of economic conditions across the European Union , with better performances than expected outside the southern European countries , and strengths in the US and India .
Vodafone expects full-year operating profit to come at the top end of its range outlined in May , partly because of a strong performance by Verizon Wireless , the US mobile operator in which it has a 45 per cent stake .
The UK group 's sales and operating profit were ahead of analysts ' expectations .
Vodafone reported revenue of pound(s)23.5bn for the six months to September 30 , up 4.1 per cent from the same time last year , and underlying operating profit of pound(s)6bn , down 0.6 per cent .
Pre-tax profit fell 2.8 per cent to pound(s)8.01bn , partly because of higher financing costs and lower investment income after it sold minority stakes in Chinese and Japanese mobile operators .
Vittorio Colao , chief executive , said only Spain was proving a serious drag on the company , given pressure on pricing there and the need for restructuring .
He said the writedown on Vodafone 's Greek business was almost half that of a year ago .
The company remained in talks with Wind Hellas , one of the other two operators in the Greek market , about a potential merger , Mr Colao confirmed .
Rollout of next generation LTE superfast mobile services in Germany was proceeding well , he said , and he played down future capital expenditure requirements , with the move to data services rather than voice calls over its networks a big part in being able to push prices higher .
Mr Colao highlighted how Vodafone had secured a pound(s)2.8bn dividend from Verizon Wireless , its first for seven years , on which it would pay a special dividend of 4p in February .
The interim dividend is set at 3.05p , up 7 per cent on last year .
* FT Comment
In spite of the Greek charge and exposure to southern European economies , Vodafone remains one of the best haven stocks in the FTSE 100 , given a growing dividend yielding 7.5 per cent and strength elsewhere in its spread of businesses .
With prices underpinned by a shift to data tariffs , a positive medium-term outlook of an Indian business being lined up for an IPO , and the likelihood of a further dividend next year from Verizon Wireless , the stock , up 3.15p to 176p , remains a good buy for the short term and could be due a longer-term rerating against peers .
Lex , Page 16
Credit : By Daniel Thomas and Andrew Parker
