Vodafone cuts growth guidance
* Revenue and margins affected by competition
Vodafone , the world 's biggest mobile phone operator , caused jitters among investors yesterday when it lowered its guidance for margins and revenue growth for the current year amid warnings of intensifying competition .
It expects revenue growth of 6-9 per cent , down from " high single digits " , and said margins would be flat or down 1 percentage point from 38.5 per cent , rather than its earlier guidance of " broadly stable " margins .
Arun Sarin , chief executive , said the change in guidance " reflects a more competitive backdrop " but said the change was made only to give management more flexibility to compete in key markets .
Investors sent shares down 7p or 5 per cent to 139 1/2p .
Analysts said the reaction appeared overdone because the core profit guidance had not changed .
Mr Sarin said Vodafone was on track to hit its target of 10m third-generation customers by the end of its financial year .
" We do think we can make 10m as handset prices start to come down ( in the second half ) , " Mr Sarin said .
The group has signed up 2.1m customers using 3G phones and 300,000 data card users since rolling out the latest generation of mobile technology across 13 markets last November .
Vodafone 's first guidance on 3G take-up will be closely watched by the industry and investors because of concerns that operators will struggle to secure a decent return on 3G .
Vodafone added 16.3m net customers in the year to March across 26 markets , giving it a customer base of 154.8m.
Vodafone confirmed plans to increase returns to shareholders with a Pounds 4.5bn share buyback programme , up from Pounds 4bn last year , and a doubling of the dividend from 2.03p to 4.07p.
Ken Hydon , finance director , said the group 's Pounds 8.3bn net debt load left it with " plenty of headroom " to return further cash to shareholders and finance more acquisitions .
Mr Sarin said Vodafone could load a further Pounds 10bn-Pounds 15bn on to its balance sheet without losing its single-A credit rating .
He said he was looking to expand in central and eastern Europe in particular and hinted at similar sized acquisitions to the Pounds 2.3bn deal in Romania and the Czech Republic in March .
Mr Sarin said the management team put into the troubled Japanese business was on course to get things right .
" We are confident we will turn the business around by the end of this ( financial ) year , " Mr Sarin said .
The company reported turnover up 1.4 per cent to Pounds 34.1bn in the year to March .
Earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortisation rose to Pounds 10.9bn from Pounds 10.7bn.
Group pre- tax losses narrowed to Pounds 4.7bn from Pounds 5bn , dragged down by Pounds 14.7bn in goodwill write-downs .
Lex , Page 20 Mudlark , Page 24
