Vodafone books Pounds 100m on Pounds 1.8bn sale of Swisscom Mobile TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Vodafone has agreed to sell its 25 per cent stake in Switzerland 's leading mobile phone operator for Pounds 1.8bn , as it continues to dispose of some of its minority shareholdings in wireless companies .
Swisscom , Switzerland 's dominant telecommunications company , is to pay Vodafone SFr4.25bn for its stake in Swisscom Mobile .
Although Vodafone said it would use the Pounds 1.8bn to reduce its net debt of Pounds 20.2bn , some analysts predicted the sale proceeds could help finance expansion in emerging markets such as Africa , Asia and eastern Europe .
Vodafone said its guidance of free cash flow of Pounds 4.7bn to Pounds 5.2bn for 2006-07 would have to be revised down because it would no longer receive Pounds 100m of dividend payments from Swisscom Mobile .
Vodafone is to record a exceptional gain of Pounds 100m in its next results on the disposal of the Swisscom Mobile stake , which represents the difference between the sale price and the book value .
Vodafone paid SFr4.5bn for the stake in 2001 .
Arun Sarin , Vodafone 's chief executive , said : " We do not . . . see ourselves as the most appropriate holder of this minority stake in the longer term and Swisscom is keen to increase its holding in Swisscom Mobile . "
Analysts at Bear Stearns and Morgan Stanley said Vodafone had secured an attractive price , implyinga multiple of nine times the operator 's forecast core earnings for 2007 .
Vodafone has been tidying up its portfolio of businesses in western Europe , where fierce competition and pressure from regulators for price cuts has resulted in slowing revenue growth and declining profit margins .
It sold its 25 per cent stake in Proximus , Belgium 's leading mobile operator , for Euros 2bn in November .
Swisscom will hold 100 per cent of Swisscom Mobile 's equity after the deal .
Carsten Schloter , Swisscom 's chief executive , said the transaction would boost the group 's earnings per share by 10 per cent and enhance its strategy for fixed-line and mobile convergence .
Shares in Vodafone closed down 1/2p at 144 3/4p .
