Vodafone chief eyes Verizon dividend
MOBILE & TELECOMS
Vodafone , the telecoms group , on Tuesday used its annual meeting to claim vindication of its strategy of refusing to sell its minority stake in Verizon Wireless , the leading US mobile phone operator .
Sir John Bond used his last speech as Vodafone 's chairman to highlight how Verizon Communications , Verizon Wireless ' controlling shareholder , has said the mobile operator is due to resume making dividend payments in 2012 , seven years after the parents last received a pay-out .
Vittorio Colao , Vodafone 's chief executive , endorsed comments by Lowell McAdam , his incoming counterpart at Verizon Communications , who last week said he did not envisage the UK and US groups combining .
Mr Colao also disclosed that Sir John had last year urged him not to yield to pressure from some shareholders for a rapid sale of Vodafone 's minority stakes in overseas mobile operators .
Ontario Teachers Pension Fund , the activist shareholder , used Vodafone 's annual meeting in July last year to unsuccessfully call for Sir John 's removal and a restructuring of the group .
Mr Colao said Sir John had secured a " few extra millions " for Vodafone 's shareholders by telling him not to rush into selling its minority stakes .
Since last September , Vodafone has finalised sales of minority stakes in Chinese , Japanese , French and Polish mobile operators .
But Vodafone has retained its 45 per cent stake in Verizon Wireless , after rejecting an offer in 2006 by Verizon Communications to buy the UK group out of their joint venture .
Verizon Communications blocked dividend payments by Verizon Wireless in 2005 , in a move widely seen as an attempt to squeeze out Vodafone .
But Verizon Communications is expected to approve a resumption of dividend payments by Verizon Wireless later this year because otherwise the controlling shareholder could have to cut its group pay-out , according to some analysts .
Sir John said of Verizon Wireless at the annual meeting : " The prospect for dividends is now very good , with Verizon 's management confirming a pay-out in 2012 . "
He told the Financial Times later : " The policy not to sell five years ago has been vindicated . "
Andy Halford , Vodafone 's finance director , said analysts ' valuations of the Verizon Wireless stake had increased from about $20bn in 2001 to $65bn-$70bn ( pound(s)40bn-pound(s)43bn ) in 2011 .
Sir John said the " huge challenge " he was leaving behind at Vodafone was how to unlock the value of its stake in Verizon Wireless , given it represented about 45 per cent of the UK group 's market capitalisation .
" We do need to reflect very , very carefully on all the possibilities , " he said .
See People
Credit : By Andrew Parker
