Vodafone lifted by prospect of French and Chinese sales
london
Disposal hopes helped lift Vodafone yesterday as the FTSE 100 rebounded from an eight-month low .
Vodafone shares climbed 2.7 per cent to 133p after Merrill Lynch analysts said it may look to sell its interests in China and France .
The company is already in talks to sell a majority stake in Vodafone Egypt .
" Disposals would crystalise value , reduce indebtedness and highlight management 's willingness to actively manage the portfolio , " said Merrill , which repeated " buy " advice .
Investors have welcomed the reluctance of the current Vodafone management to build by acquisition , Merrill analyst Emmet Kelly argued .
" A final move from acquiring to divesting assets would represent a full 180-degree turn vis-a-vis the previous eras , from value destruction to expected value realisation . "
Selling its 3.2 per cent stake in China Mobile - worth nearly $6bn at yesterday 's price - would finance Vodafone 's spectrum costs in India and Germany as well as reducing debt , Merrill argued .
It also saw logic in cutting its minority holding in France 's SFR , but reckoned Vodafone would stop short of selling the entire stake .
Bargain hunting helped the FTSE 100 recover most of Tuesday 's 2.5 per cent drop .
The index closed off highs to end up 97.40 points or 2 per cent at 5,038.08.
Miners provided the foundation for the rally amid reports that the Australian government was ready to water down its proposals for a resources super-tax .
Rio Tinto gained 7.3 per cent to pound(s)30.64 and BHP Billiton was up 5.3 per cent to pound(s)18.57 , while Xstrata took on 5.7 per cent to 972 1/4 p.
Sector peers followed metals prices higher , with a positive note from ING also lending support .
" After a substantial pull-back in share prices , we believe that there is excellent value in the sector , " it argued .
" Short-term concerns have provided the market with an entry point to benefit from ongoing long-term growth in China and other leading developing markets .
The metals and mining sector provides investors with access to these growing markets without being as exposed as other sectors to Europe 's troubles . "
Kazakhmys , which was hosting an analyst briefing , bounced 7.2 per cent to pound(s)11.49 and ENRC gained 6.4 per cent to 693p .
BP edged 1.4 per cent higher to 492p after the US coastguard gave the green light to its " top kill " plan to staunch its leaking well in the Gulf of Mexico .
Among the financials , Lloyds Banking Group gained 6.7 per cent to 54p and Royal Bank of Scotland was 5.6 per cent higher at 45p .
Credit Suisse upgraded both stocks to " outperform " on valuation grounds .
Man Group was up 2.8 per cent to 215 1/4 p after UBS argued that concerns about its GLG acquisition and key performance were overdone .
It moved to a " buy " rating and 310p target .
Burberry led the blue-chip risers , up 7.6 per cent to 659p on better than forecast full-year earnings and a confident outlook .
Cable & Wireless Worldwide gained 4.8 per cent to 79 1/2 p after its maiden results since C&W 's demerger matched expectations .
The shares were also lifted by a revival of bid speculation .
Arm Holdings gained 4.9 per cent to 239 1/2 p on tracker fund demand ahead of its addition to MSCI indices taking effect today .
Aggreko , up 1.4 per cent to pound(s)12.07 , and ITV , up 3.9 per cent to 55 1/4 p are also due to join MSCI 's benchmarks .
All three stocks traded in excess of six times their average daily volume .
Separately , analysts dismissed speculation that ITV may bid for Channel Five .
A purchase would not fit with the new ITV management 's strategy , group debt is already too high and the media regulator would be unlikely to approve , Panmure Gordon said .
Elsewhere among the mid-caps , Afren jumped 13.5 per cent to 89 3/4 p after Renaissance Capital started coverage of the Africafocused oil explorer with a " buy " rating and 135p price target .
House broker Morgan Stanley was also positive following a management meeting .
Engineer IMI was 8 per cent higher at 624 1/2 p on the back of a UBS upgrade to " buy " with a 720p share price target .
Credit : By Bryce Elder and Neil Hume
