Vodafone 's Colao signals more cautious approach
Vittorio Colao , new chief executive of Vodafone , outlined a shift in strategy for the company yesterday by signalling a more cautious approach to deals compared with his predecessors .
He indicated that Vodafone 's expansion into developing countries might be close to completion by saying there were few new large markets that interested him .
Vodafone 's shares closed up 6.2 per cent at 115p after the world 's largest mobile phone operator by revenue confirmed it would stick to its operating profit target of pound(s)11bn to pound(s)11.5bn for 2008-09 , albeit thanks to favourable exchange rate movements .
At Vodafone 's first-half results , Mr Colao also pleased investors by raising its target for free cash flow - broadly , operating cash flow minus capital expenditure - to pound(s)5.2bn-pound(s)5.7bn for 2008-09 , by cutting costs .
The previous target was pound(s)5.1bn-pound(s)5.6bn.
Explaining his conservative approach to deals , Mr Colao said any large acquisition would probably have to be funded through disposals .
Analysts said it was the first time Vodafone had taken such a stance .
Vodafone wants to see consolidation between mobile operators in its existing markets , notably Europe , and Mr Colao said the company was willing , for the first time , to buy rivals .
However , he also said Vodafone might sell businesses .
His comments contrasted with the ambitious acquisitions pursued by Sir Christopher Gent and Arun Sarin , his predecessors .
Mr Colao is focused on maximising revenue opportunities in existing markets and cutting costs by pound(s)1bn by 2010-11 .
He said he wanted to make Vodafone " simpler " and " faster " , so as to cope with rising economic , competitive and regulatory pressures .
" My ambition is to lead Vodafone in an industry I do believe is still attractive , and to fully explore . . .
Vodafone 's strong advantages in brand , scale and assets , " Mr Colao said .
Vodafone 's revenue rose 17.1 per cent to pound(s)19.9bn in the six months to September 30 .
Ad-justed operating profit rose 10.5 per cent to pound(s)5.8bn , fuelled by sterling 's weakness against the euro and the dollar .
On an underlying basis , operating profit fell 1 per cent .
Pre-tax profit fell 27.3 per cent to pound(s)3.3bn , partly because of a pound(s)1.7bn impairment charge on Vodafone 's troubled Turkish business .
Mr Colao announced changes to Vodafone 's dividend policy by abandoning the practice of paying out 60 per cent of earnings .
Vodafone is promising a " progressive " policy , but analysts expressed disappointment that the full-year dividend was likely to rise by less than their previous estimates .
The interim dividend rose 3.2 per cent to 2.57p.
Lex , Page 16 Stormy seas , Page 19
Credit : By Andrew Parker
