Vouchers flatter Christmas at Tesco
A push by Tesco to boost sales during the Christmas period by issuing pound(s)100m of money-saving vouchers to members of its loyalty scheme helped Britain 's largest retailer achieve what it described as its best festive season performance for three years .
Tesco reported UK sales growth , in stores open at least a year , of 4.9 per cent in the six weeks to January 9 , ahead of analysts ' expectations of about 3 per cent expansion and the 2.8 per cent increase in the third quarter .
The retailer beefed up its Clubcard scheme with the pound(s)100m of extra vouchers in an effort to close the gap on faster-growing rivals .
But some analysts feared the vouchers would " artificially " inflate sales and called on the company to reveal their impact .
In response , Tesco detailed for the first time how its voucher promotions boosted sales .
It disclosed that pound(s)34m more Clubcard vouchers were redeemed in the six weeks to January 9 than in the period a year earlier .
Stripping out the promotion under an accounting standard for loyalty schemes , UK like-for-like sales growth was 4.1 per cent in the festive season .
Tesco shares rose 3.15p to 421p on the trading statement but some analysts expressed concern .
Dave McCarthy at Evolution Securities said : " The fact that less than half of the extra mailshot vouchers were used looks disappointing to us . "
Laurie McIlwee , finance director , defended the scheme , in which Tesco is investing hundreds of millions of pounds , and said the proportion of vouchers redeemed was " bang in line " with expectations .
Only about 75 per cent of vouchers were ever redeemed in Tesco stores , he said , and only about 50 per cent of these were cashed in within eight weeks .
Mr McIlwee said the UK sales performance showed Tesco had regained ground in the UK .
" We have gone from joining the pack to right at the front , " he said .
But he forecast another tough year as Britain faced a " slow recovery " , and warned against government measures to cut its debt burden while the economy remained fragile .
Group sales rose 6.9 per cent , with international sales 2.4 per cent higher , or 4.1 per cent excluding the effect of currency movements .
In the fledgling US business , sales rose 35 per cent , excluding exchange rates .
But US like-for-like sales had risen in the " mid-teen " level , Mr McIlwee said .
There was a " very slight " improvement in conditions on the West Coast , but it was " still hard yards in California " .
Lombard , Page 18 Clubcard route , Page 19
Credit : By Andrea Felsted and Philip Stafford
