BEGALA Well , we will debate that later on in the show .
we will have a couple of expert come out , so I will withhold my comment until then .
even as the secretary of homeland security be put he people on high alert last month , a 30-foot cuban patrol boat with four heavily armed man land on american shore , utterly undetected by the Coast Guard Secretary Ridge now lead .
now , why have we president place homeland security in the hand of republican political hack instead of professional , by the way ?
Attorney General John Ashcroft , for example , be a career politician .
he lose a election to a dead man .
Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge be another career politician who be pass over by Mr. Bush for the vice presidency .
and Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security Asa Hutchinson be yet another career politician and a graduate of the disgraceful Bob Jones University .
apparently , Mr. Bush only turn to professional when it be really important , like political consulting .
NOVAK Paul , as I understand you definition of a political -- of a professional politician base on that be somebody who be elect to public office .
now in you administration , the Clinton administration , there be these member of the cabinet who by you definition be professional politician -- Lloyd Bentsen , Les Aspin , William S. Cohen , Janet Reno , Bruce Babbitt , Mike Espy , Dan Glickman , Norman Mineta , Henry Cisneros , Federico Pena , Bill Richardson , Richard Riley , 12 of they , not to mention former democratic National Chairman Ron Brown , and one of the great professional politician of all time , Bill Daly .
BEGALA and you know what , they do a hell of a job for we country .
and these bozo let four armed Cubans land on we shore when they be try to make a high terrorist alert .
we president have put homeland security in the hand of failed republican hack .
hire professional , Mr. President .
NOVAK so it be ok -- it be ok to have professional politician at the Justice Department and the Pentagon ... BEGALA Janet Reno be a career prosecutor .
NOVAK just a minute , let I finish my sentence , please .
it be ok to put democratic career politician at the Pentagon and the Justice Department if they be democrat but not if they be Republicans , be that right ?
BEGALA No , the difference be Janet Reno be a career prosecutor .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- BEGALA John Ashcroft be not half the woman that Janet Reno be .
NOVAK another potential democratic presidential candidate ponder whether to run , and he make he announcement , and surprise , surprise , the answer be no .
Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut make the announcement today that he would not be the 10th candidate for the nomination .
why not ?
surely Chris Dodd be at least more credible than Carol Moseley-Braun or Dennis Kucinich .
he explain he could better spend the next two year on homeland security , the economy and judicial nomination .
I guess that mean harass Tom Ridge , fight tax cut and obstruct President Bush 's plan to reform judiciary .
some two year .
BEGALA God , I hope so .
that be all I can say .
I love Senator Dodd .
he would have bring a lot to the race .
he bring a lot to the Senate and to the debate .
and I be glad that he be go to be fight those fight .
well , the Commerce Department report today that consumer spending decline in January and that the manufacturing sector slow in February .
in all , two million Americans have lose they job under President Bush so far , not to mention three of they be the top three leader of he economic team .
meanwhile , the deficit now at $ 300 billion .
it could swell to as much as $ 500 billion if we go to war in Iraq .
Mr. Bush apparently be untroubled by this fiscal collapse .
one of he aide tell the current issue of `` TIME , '' magazine , quote , `` even if it be $ 500 billion , so what ? ''
of course , even a $ 500 billion deficit number do not count the $ 3 trillion Mr. Bush be rob from the Social Security trust fund .
you know , we should have know , every time George W. Bush get in trouble , he borrow from a trust fund .
it be be he whole life , you know .
NOVAK let I give you two economic fact of like , which you should know , even if you will not recognize they .
number one , there be absolutely no relationship between the deficit and unemployment .
they do not go together .
and number two , there be no Social Security fund , Virginia .
there just be not one .
BEGALA because Bush squander it on he tax cut .
NOVAK there never have be one .
BEGALA there have be one for 60 year .
NOVAK welcome back .
order go out today to deploy 17,000 U.S. Army soldier in the Persian Gulf region .
the army 's entire first Calvary division base at Fort Hood , Texas , would join the quarter million U.S. force already in the region .
we be talk about possibility of full scale war with former Congressman Tom Andrews , Democrat of Maine .
he be now national director of Win without War , and former congressman Bob Dornan , Republican of California .
BEGALA Bob , one of the reason I think so many Americans be worry about this war and so many people around the world do not want to go be there have be a lot of problem with credibility from this administration .
we president have repeatedly , for example , rely on a man whom you be aware , Hussein Kamel , Saddam Hussein 's son-in-law , leader of the Iraq arm program who defect for a time .
and give we a whole lot of information and then go home and he father-in-law kill he .
bad move .
but while he be here , he give we a whole lot of information .
give we a whole lot of information .
well , we president tell we that information prove that the dictator have chemical weapon , which be true .
but what we just learn this week from `` Newsweek '' magazine which get a hold of the debriefing , be that he also tell we it be destroy back in 1995 .
why have not we president tell we that ?
why do we have to learn it from `` Newsweek '' ?
DORNAN I do not believe that he believe it be all destroy .
the fact that this guy be such a idiot to go back and let he father-in-law kill he show he be not the most stable of people .
but the thing that ... BEGALA Good point .
but should not we president have tell we what the CIA tell he .
why do we learn from `` Newsweek ?
`` should he level with we ?
DORNAN Paul , look , the problem be I would stipulate all four of we hate war .
any rational person hate war .
Bush be not sit in that White House not think about the body bags come home with great young man .
Clinton suffer greatly over the 19 Rangers that die , 18 on the 3rd of October and Matt Reersen -lrb- ph -rrb- three day later .
I visit all they family .
I be at the medal of honor ceremony for the kid .
let I tell you , what trip to Walter Reed teach I be , that whoever think up the term , the law of unintended consequence it pertain to war .
I be shake over the aftermath .
but , this guy be a monster , a mini-me Hitler .
he will blow a city off the earth in a minute if he can get the hold of the means to do it .
NOVAK Tom Andrews , I think we all realize that a government do not go to war a nation go to war .
and so I would like you to take a look at the CNN / `` USA TODAY '' / Gallup poll , take last week , should U.S. troops to go to Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein from power .
take a look at it .
favor 59 % , oppose 37 % , that be a vastly larger support than President Bush Senior have in get the U.S. troops out of Kuwait before that war start .
that be pretty good support be not it ?
ANDREWS now , Bob , come on you do not really buy this .
I mean , listen , this be the oldest trick in the book .
you can have a general question like this that could mean anything and ask people and they give you what come off the top of they head .
but , ask they another question , ask they what they think about spend $ 1.3 trillion in destroy this economy .
ask they about go and not just a war , Bob , but a invasion and occupy for up to 10 year a sovereign Arab nation in the midst of one of the most distable and volatile region in the world .
ask they how they feel about get bog down .
well , I have see some of the figure .
once you start tell Americans the story , -- the administration refuse today tell we story .
they be not come forward and tell we what the risk be , what the cost be , how many year we might be in , the possibility of we get bog down , because what Americans know that , they be oppose to this war .
the more they learn about this invasion , the more they learn about this occupation , the less they support it .
DORNAN Tom , you know what liberal want .
they do not want a smoking gun , they want a smoking city .
the Clinton people all say ... BEGALA that be go to have to be last war , unfair and unfortunate as that be , I be sorry , they be tell we we be out of time .
former congressman , Bob Dornan from California ... DORNAN you be not go to get a smoking city .
NOVAK Former Arkansas Governor and U.S. Senator Dale Bumpers have just publish a memoir call `` the best Lawyer in a One-Lawyer Town . ''
and it span he life from the depression era to the Clinton era .
let 's ask he which be more depressing .
BEGALA First , thank you for write this book .
it be extraordinary .
it be wonderful .
and then we read you one passage .
you cite a session you have with President Lyndon Johnson in Austin , I guess , at he ranch , right ?
here be what you quote we President Johnson to you .
`` when I be majority leader , and later president , I spend all my time pull every power string I could find to pull , try to pass bill that help people .
that make they life better and the country stronger .
that be what the Democrats stand for . ''
`` republican ?
Republicans just stand for two thing : protect the rich and investigation democrat . ''
that be true , though , be not it ?
Johnson be right , be not he ?
bumper i think that be one of the most prescient thing I ever hear , and that be long before white water .
BEGALA Yes .
he never hear of Ken Starr , but he anticipate it .
BUMPERS nothing ever change , Paul .
NOVAK can I interrupt this democratic picnic for just a minute ?
you know , Senator , inadvertently , you give support in this book to one of my pet political theme , which you probably do not agree with .
on page 256 you say , `` as the year go by '' -- this be when you be in the Senate -- `` less and less information be new , fewer and fewer argument be fresh , and the repetitiveness of the old argument become tiresome . ''
`` I be become almost as cynical as my constituent .
I know it be time to leave . ''
be not that a great argument for term limit ?
I know very few senator or any who be as good in they third term as they be in they first term .
should not we limit they to two term ?
BUMPERS First of all , that statement be not design to cover everybody in the United States Senate .
but I must say , that be a pretty accurate statement .
but it have nothing do with term limit , in my opinion .
I think term limit be the worst idea I ever hear of .
-lrb- applause -rrb- begala amen .
novak I try at least .
BEGALA let I turn one more page , to page 257 , actually , right next door to where Bob be read .
this strike I because you have get the courage to say something that be heretical today and it be music to my ear .
you say , `` partisanship have take on a odious connotation , and it may indeed be shriller now than ever .
but we should not lose sight of the fact that we have two political party so people will have choice .
if everybody agree on everything , it might be a tranquil society , but it surely would be a dole one , and certainly not certainly a good one . ''
BUMPERS you know , Paul , that be the reason we have two party , so people have a choice .
and I have say many time , if we all agree on everything , everybody would want to marry Betty and we would really be in a mess , would not we , Bob ?
NOVAK Senator Bumpers , of the 22 senator of the old confederacy , when I get to Washington with the Associated Press , 45 year ago , 22 of they be Democrats , nine be Republicans .
now 13 be Republicans and nine be Democrats .
and of the Democrats , I do not think there be a real liberal .
you last year in the Senate I have a interview with you and I write a column call `` the last Southern Liberal . ''
BUMPERS and I thank you .
it be a very flattering article , Bob .
NOVAK and you say , I will quote it , you say , today 's Southern voter be `` child of Democrats who be not sway by the same thing they mother and father be .
they certainly be susceptible to the republican message . ''
that be a good future for the Democratic Party in the South .
BUMPERS Bob , I think that the reason everybody in the south -- you know , first of all , we be -- when Franklin Roosevelt be elect president , we have be live what we think be still a conquered nation after the civil war .
and we feel that Franklin Roosevelt be the first person who ever really acknowledge that the South have peculiar problem .
and from that time on , that be the reason we have 22 democratic senator from 11 confederate state , be because of the civil war and because of what we think be a heavy hand of the federal government all the time .
of course there be always that old story about the Yankees , and Yankees be synonymous with Republicans .
but that be all change and memory have dim .
and people , you know , they do not remember that .
and so the message , the Republicans have actually have a golden opportunity to make they case and they have do it successfully .
and the Democrats need desperately to get a message to counter that , and they need to get a message and stay on it .
I mean we can not be all over the lot .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- novak -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- they be just not buy the new deal anymore in the South .
be not that the truth ?
BUMPERS Well , that be true .
they be not buy a new deal .
but I will tell you the message the Democrats ought to be -- that every time we get sort of within the grasp of the golden age , I mean within reach of the golden age , where everybody have health care , where everybody get a good education -- you know I be one of the million and a half people -- my brother go to Harvard , I go to Northwestern University .
two school my father could not have even think about afford .
a million and a half veteran come out of War World II on the gi bill and get that kind of a education .
if that make I a liberal , because I believe the government have a role to play in that , then I be a certified liberal , because I think that make the country stronger .
I think certainly it make every one of those people stronger , and I think we ought to be do it right now .
no child in this country ought to be deprive of a education for lack of money .
no elderly person ought to have to make a choice between food and medicine .
and they do it by the million every day .
and now ... -lrb- applause -rrb- BEGALA Will you run for president ?
I will chair a committee .
Dale Bumpers for president , lady and gentleman .
thank you very much .
BUMPERS thank you , Paul .
BEGALA that be just terrific .
the book again be Dale Bumpers , `` the best Lawyer in a One-Lawyer Town . ''
I highly recommend it .
and next in we `` fireback '' segment , one of we viewer have a question about we president 's concept of democracy .
Stay tune .
-lrb- applause -rrb-
NOVAK Time for `` Fireback , '' when the viewer fire back at we .
Joshua Hosford of Newport Beach , California -- that would be nice in this weather -- `` Paul , I guess we be go after all .
case in point , Khalid Shaikh Mohammed .
it be amazing how someone can actually do two thing at once .
I be chew gum and talk on the phone while write this note . ''
Joshua , you could not have say anything better .
in fact , I have already say it .
BEGALA Well , in fact , we ally get Mr. Mohammed along with we .
we need ally .
and Bush be so far angered every ally we have .
Dan Snyder of Baden , Pennsylvania write , `` Bush should torture the al Qaeda chief operation officer .
Bush have be torture Americans for two year .
why should this guy get preferential treatment ? ''
-lrb- laughter -rrb- NOVAK and I think he be -- I think he be busy run the Redskins .
no ?
ok .
the next comment be from Frank Mastro of New York City .
`` Mr. Novak , I do not understand the problem .
if the budget go through as be , why do not Mr. Begala and Mr. Carville just donate the extra tax money they do not want ? ''
I say that to all the rich millionaire Democrats , like Carville and Begala , who do not want tax cut .
pay it anyway .
BEGALA I will donate to the Democrats .
they will defeat Bush and everybody will get rich .
that be a better strategy .
David Horn of Long Island , New York , write , `` how can Bush say he be for democracy ?
he have to sue to become we president , and he keep try to bribe other country ' democratic government into he support he agenda .
where do he learn to govern , 1930 's Chicago ? ''
NOVAK ok .
question from the audience .
unidentified male hi .
I be Paul Avalar -lrb- ph -rrb- from Tempe , Arizona .
I have a question also about Khalid Shaikh Mohammed .
and now how be people go to argue that the U.S. can no longer both fight a war with Iraq and also fight terrorism , specifically al Qaeda ?
NOVAK that be a great question .
it be a unanswerable point .
he have not be able to answer it .
and Tom Andrews -lrb- ph -rrb- be not able to answer it .
BEGALA look , we need ally to catch these guy .
we get he because the Pakistanis get he .
we do not get he .
we go to war in Iraq , 200,000 people start protest in Pakistan , they put too much pressure on the government .
it become impossible for those government to cooperate with we like they be cooperate now .
we go to war in Iraq , it would be the worst thing we can do ... NOVAK you know the one thing the Democrats can not stand be good news .
it be just something you can not handle .
BEGALA No .
what I can not stand be a president who be go to screw up we war against terrorism when I think that be he job .
from the left , I be Paul Begala .
good night for crossfire .
NOVAK from the right , I be Robert Novak .
join we again next time for another edition of crossfire .
BEGALA welcome back to crossfire .
President Bush today renew he call for a $ 250,000 cap on pain and suffer damages from the victim of medical malpractice .
ironically down in North Carolina today be also the day funeral service be hold for 17-year-old Jesica Santillan , the brave young woman who get the wrong heart and lung in a botched transplant operation last month .
be she family 's pain and suffer only worth $ 250,000 ?
here to debate medical malpractice reform be consumer advocate Ralph Nader and Dr. Donald Palmisano , the president-elect of the American Medical Association .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- NOVAK Ralph Nader , there be state in crisis that keep add to the list by the AMA where doctor be go out of business because they can not afford the medical malpractice rate .
we will just run a scroll of some of the state .
they be big state .
Florida , New Jersey , New York , Ohio , Pennsylvania , Illinois , Texas .
this be a real crisis that lawyer have perpetrate on America , be not it ?
RALPH NADER , consumer advocate another one of you lead question .
this be a medical malpractice crisis .
over 80,000 Americans , 220 every day die from medical negligence , hundred of thousand be injure .
and the insurance company which have relatively steady rate on doctor for about 10 year have find its investment income , its interest income , the stock market collapse down .
and so they be jack up the rate on a few key specialty like obstetrician and neurosurgeon .
but if you take the entire amount of premium , Bob , that be pay by doctor in this country to malpractice insurer and divide it evenly , they would be pay less than $ 9,000 each .
that be one-third of what they pay a receptionist .
NOVAK that run against the fact that so many of they be just leave they practice because they can not afford it .
you know , Ralph , you and I often agree on some thing and one thing I think we agree on be the dirty effect of money and politics .
can you say that the lawyer , the trial lawyer who appoint million and million of dollar into democratic coffer in order to keep this , do you believe that this be healthy ... NADER Well , as much as they have pour into those coffer , it be much less than what the doctor , the malpractice insurer , the hospital chain and the hmo and the nursing home chain have pour into member of Congress ' coffer .
this be first and foremost , Bob , a question of equity .
be we go to allow severely injured people who have find a lung take out that be the wrong lung or a double mastectomy that be not indicate that be inflict on a woman in the Midwest , or that organ transplant that be incompatible on that 17-year-old teenager in North Carolina .
be we go to say to these and so many other , you can not have you full day in court ?
the Congress be go to handcuff the judge and jury in the United States at the state court level ?
I have not yet meet one senator or representative who be for this bill who have demonstrate that the juror in they home state and the judge in they home state be incompetent , unwilling or unable to perform justice in these medical malpractice case .
and I have never hear one person say that the insurance executive who make $ 250,000 a week , every week without any pain and suffering , no one be say cap those .
-lrb- applause -rrb- BEGALA Dr. Palmisano , first thank you for be here .
DR. DONALD PALMISANO , PRESIDENT-ELECT , AMA thank you .
pleasure to be here .
BEGALA there be a hear on Capitol Hill today .
and , I want to ask you to respond to one of the witness , John McCormick testify today .
he be the father of a little girl , 13-month-old girl , who he say today die because of medical malpractice .
he say that the hospital ignore abnormal co2 level in she blood .
Said that the attend physician have sleep through several page .
she die await surgery .
listen to what Mr. McCormick say and I will ask you to respond .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- JOHN MCCORMICK , FATHER of MALPRACTICE VICTIM Mr. President , from father to father , my family 's pain and suffering be not frivolous .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- BEGALA be not he right ?
be not we president wrong to be -- do he win the Lottery ?
you know , Mr. Bush -- President Bush say these guy have win the litigation Lottery .
do that look like a Lottery winner to you , hold a picture of he dead baby ?
PALMISANO Well , the current medical liability system be affect patient in that they can not get access to care .
the American Medical Association work very hard to make safety a priority in the medical care system .
that be why we found the National Patient Safety Foundation .
the current system do not measure negligence .
it measure disability .
and what we be find now be that the emergency room be close , trauma center be close , pregnant woman can not find a doctor to deliver the baby , a boy knock unconscious have to be transport to another state .
another witness today tell of what happen to she husband because there be no longer neurosurgeon available in the community .
the patient have to be airavack and by that time it be too late to prevent the brain damage .
BEGALA those be important point , I do not doubt .
PALMISANO Yes .
BEGALA but I wonder if you can respond to Mr. McCormick 's point .
who be you , who be we president to tell he that he suffering be only worth $ 250,000 for the loss of a child ?
PALMISANO Well , what have to be do here be balance .
what we need be a system that be fair to everyone , a system that keep the physician in practice and allow patient to have access to physician in they hour of need .
and the system in California that be in the bill , in Congress now , hr-5 , that be a system that have work .
it bring stability to California and obstetrician in California will pay 55 , 57 , $ 60,000 in Los Angeles and in South Florida in Miami , they will pay $ 210,000 ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- NADER because in California they have regulate the insurance company premium level .
and in Florida , they have be very weak on it .
and in some state , for example , there be doctor that be -- you know , there be 45 payout in ten year and they be not discipline by the state medical board .
I mean , you have get 5 percent of the doctor account for over 55 percent of the payoff , Paul .
in other word a small percentage of doctor that be bad , incompetent , indifferent , whatever .
they be not perform properly and the AMA be not crack down , be not support expansion to state licensing ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- palmisano I want to respond to that .
the National Practitioner Data Bank be the source of the information and it be bring up today .
First of all , the Government Accounting Office criticize the methodology use .
it list multiple claim against one physician when actually it be really one claim , different insurer pay on the same physician and it be count as one claim .
it do not mention whether they be obstetrician , neurosurgeon or emergency medicine .
it do not list that .
right now in South Florida , in South Florida , the latest poll show that every neurosurgeon have be sue .
the average number of suit against a neurosurgeon be five in South Florida .
now be these bad doctor ?
we will have no doctor , we will have no neurosurgeon , no obstetrician ... NOVAK we have get to take a break .
NADER maybe they be bad doctor .
NOVAK welcome back .
both the AMA and the Bush administration release report this week say out of control trial lawyer be drive doctor out of they practice all across the country .
President Bush point this way today , even the most frivolous of lawsuit cost money , premium go up and either way , the patient pay .
we be debate malpractice reform with consumer advocate Ralph Nader , and AMA President-Elect Dr. Ronald Palmisano .
BEGALA Dr. Palmisano , again , thanks for stay with we through the break .
let I set aside the hypocrisy of a man who become president because of a lawsuit try to eliminate everybody else 's lawsuit , but instead focus on he own experience .
he be the governor of my state of Texas , where there be a whole lot of doctor .
it turn out that he do not do any kind of a job police you profession at all when he be the governor of Texas .
here be what the `` Dallas morning news '' report recently : `` the Texas State Board of Medical examiner , the agency that pledge to protect the public have grant second and third chance to surgeon who be throw out of hospital because they botch operation .
it have forgive physician who overlook cancerous tumor , who maim infant or whose mistake leave woman sterilize .
it have refuse in the last five year to revoke the license of a single doctor for commit medical error .
thousand more may have be ignore over the last decade . ''
that be the Bush record in police surgeon , why should we trust he now ?
PALMISANO Well , first off ... BEGALA Physicians generally , not just surgeon , forgive I .
PALMISANO Sure .
what we need to do be to make sure that state board , number one , have adequate funding .
the AMA support that .
if there be any bad doctor we want they remove from the practice of medicine .
but it be also ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- begala ... bad doctor ?
PALMISANO Well , it be also unfair to make a judgment without know all of the fact of the case .
because someone pay money in a case , the insurance company may pay money because they be afraid there be be go to be a giant award in this case because of this broken liability system .
Troy Brennan -lrb- ph -rrb- of Harvard say there be no correlation with negligence , only with disability .
so let 's look at all of the fact , but give everybody due process here in America before we criticize .
NADER actually , Troy Brennan , the same doctor at Harvard Public School of Health say the issue be not to fuel lawsuit , it be too many .
less than 10 percent of the victim of medical malpractice , and we be talk about horrific injury here , even file a claim .
even file a claim .
and the entire pay-out to all of the victim that get a little money , not the 90 percent who never file a claim , amount to less than what we spend on dog food .
on dog food .
it be about $ 5.4 billion be the pay-out .
that be a fraction of physician income .
it be a fraction of the health care expense of 1.4 trillion .
PALMISANO what we have to do be look at all the fact and have balance here .
that be what the people in Congress have to do .
they have to make sure that whatever they decide keep doctor in practice and patient have access to care .
NADER doctor be go ... PALMISANO but let I - but let I - wait ... NADER doctor be leave practice because of insurance premium , right ?
be that right ?
they do not abandon they patient , except for the high premium of a few specialty ?
PALMISANO because of the premium .
but first of all let I ... NADER why do not you crack down on the insurance company ?
PALMISANO No .
let 's talk about the fact .
let 's talk about the fact .
NADER that be the fact .
PALMISANO -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- percent of the doctor be insure by physician-owned insurance company , the medical side .
I be just in Oklahoma , they own this insurance company .
they be try to do they very best .
it be a company not for profit .
what happen here be that more money be be pay out than come in .
and as far as the investment income , A.M. Bests -lrb- ph -rrb- show that in the past five year , the investment income have be stable at around 5 percent .
Brown Brothers Harriman say that investment do not precipitate the current crisis .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- nader ... payoff have be stable , adjust for inflation , National Practitioners Databank -lrb- ph -rrb- .
why do you want that to be secret ?
all of the information about bad doctor in the National Practitioner bank , you , the AMA want to keep it secret from other doctor and other patient around the country who want to know whether they doctor be on that list .
NOVAK Well , let 's look at what the president be actually propose for people who have be harm by a bad doctor .
let 's listen to what he say to the AMA today .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- BUSH if harm by a doc , they ought to be able to recover they economic cost , economic loss .
they should be able to recover non - economic damages as well .
but for the sake of the system , non - economic damages should be cap at $ 250,000 .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- NOVAK what in the world be wrong with that ?
tell I what be wrong with that ?
NADER what be wrong ?
tell someone who have a double mastectomy , tell a infant who be brain-damaged and have no economic loss that for the rest of they life they be go to get dribble out $ 250,000 for they entire life expectancy ?
wait a minute .
the head of AIG a few year ago be make $ 250,000 every week .
NOVAK two hundred and fifty thousand dollar be a lot of money , though .
not for you , but for most people it be a lot of money .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- NADER these executive , why do not you tell ... PALMISANO In California - wait , Mr. Nader .
in California ... NADER why do not you cap insurance ... BEGALA Mr. Palmisano , go ahead .
PALMISANO give I a moment , please .
NADER Go ahead , go ahead .
PALMISANO In California where they have this law , it cap the non-economics , the one you can not quantify .
there be award in 10 million , 20 million , $ 30 million in California for economic .
so all medical , all rehabilitation , care service in the home , lose wages ... NOVAK No , no , no .
I have get to ask Mr. Nader , we be almost out of time .
Doug Friedman -lrb- ph -rrb- , who run Jesse Ventura 's campaign for governor four year ago , say he want you to run for president again .
I know you be say it be much too early to run for president .
but one simple question , Ralph , will you consider another run for president ?
NADER much too early to consider .
I be concern about Donald Zook -lrb- ph -rrb- , who be head of a medical malpractice insurance company , a big one in the West , say that he insurance company executive colleague should not blame the tort injury system .
he say that you problem of jack up these insurance rate be self-inflicted .
here be a insurance company executive who be say that .
PALMISANO Well , Mr. Zook be one executive you be quote .
what we need to do be look at all of the people who do not have doctor ... NADER hey , let 's get some agreement .
should we get some agreement ?
PALMISANO what ... NADER do you want to really crack down on the bad doctor ?
PALMISANO we want to crack down on the attorney who file frivolous suit .
NADER Fine .
Fine .
PALMISANO seventy percent of the case file be tell there be no payment .
what kind of peer review be that ?
NADER wait .
wait .
do you want to crack down on the bad doctor ?
you be in AMA .
PALMISANO we definitely want to crack down on bad doctor .
but ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- NADER do you want to control insurance rate ?
PALMISANO we want the free market to dictate what be do .
BEGALA The free market actually dictate we have get to sell some commercial here on CNN or we be all out of ... PALMISANO thanks .
privilege to be here .
BEGALA welcome back to crossfire .
over in Iraq , arm inspector be discover and destroy missile .
spy plane be search for more ban arm , and iraqi scientist be be interview by U.N. weapon inspector .
but here in Washington , President Bush say it be all a hoax , and many believe he have already make up he mind to go to war .
back with we to talk about it , two congressman : J.D. Hayworth , the Republican from Arizona , and Bernie Sanders , a Independent from Vermont .
NOVAK Congressman Sanders , you be oppose to this war .
I be not crazy about it myself .
but I want to ask you a question .
when the gun begin to fire , when the american man and woman be in harm 's way and may be die , be that now the time for you and you ally to shut up and support the troops ?
-lrb- applause -rrb- SANDERS well it be not -- be you suggest that when ten and thousand of iraqi woman and child be kill , and when young man and woman in this country be unnecessarily put at harm 's risk , what should we do ?
the answer be , these be my neighbor from Vermont and obviously we be go to support they .
and obviously we be go to pray that there be fewer casualty ... NOVAK be you go to demonstrate against they in the street ?
SANDERS No , I do not demonstrate against anybody during a war .
but let 's be clear .
the president almost unilaterally be put we in this position against world opinion .
NOVAK do not the Congress support it ?
I think you vote for it .
SANDERS I do not vote for it .
novak I mean the Congress .
the majority rule .
SANDERS Yes .
the Congress give he authority , but the american people disagree with the decision .
NOVAK not accord to the poll .
SANDERS not the poll that I have see .
BEGALA Congressman Hayworth , back to a comment .
and I know that you mean it and I agree with it .
you say , `` this be Saddam Hussein , the butcher of Baghdad . ''
I be curious , would that have accurately describe he in 1988 ?
HAYWORTH oh , yes .
I think it do .
I think it have describe he , especially since he be take basically a one-man rule over with the Baath Party in 1979 .
BEGALA I agree .
therefore , be not Dick Cheney , as the ceo of Halliburton , wrong to be sell oilfield equipment to the butcher of Baghdad in 1988 ?
HAYWORTH I do not know about any oil equipment go to Saddam Hussein .
what I do know in the here and now be ... BEGALA I can tell you about it if you like .
HAYWORTH that be fine .
and I know you would love to cloud the issue .
BEGALA that be a important issue to I .
HAYWORTH No , it be so important -- you know this -- and I know it be fun and we love do partisan Punch & Judy , but be there ever a time when we stand up even if we respectfully disagree with the commander in chief and those who would wage war ?
dissent be fine , but these cheap shot , I do not know anything about Halliburton .
BEGALA he have $ 73 million worth of -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- to sell oilfield equipment to Saddam Hussein .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- HAYWORTH what I do know be Saddam Hussein have butcher over a million of he own citizen .
and to somehow try to play partisan parlor game may be cute , but we be deal with a clear and present danger .
BEGALA would you have treat he as a customer , the way Dick Cheney do ?
HAYWORTH I do not even know about that .
BEGALA would you have sell oilfield equipment to he ?
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- SANDERS furthermore , the United States support he in the war against Iran .
HAYWORTH Yes .
hello ?
Iran have hostage .
seventy-nine Americans be hold hostage .
SANDERS hello ?
hello ?
we be talk ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- SANDERS what we be talk about be the unpredictable nature of war and what could happen in this war .
for example -- wait a second -- in Iran , the reason that you have Ayatollah Khomeini in power be he overthrow the Shah .
you who put the Shah in power ?
the United States of America .
HAYWORTH oh the evil United States .
SANDERS but the point be ... NOVAK I want to get to that point .
but the problem with Khomeini be that the guy who he overthrow be put in power by the United States .
I can not quite figure that out .
SANDERS we overthrow -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- and put the Shah of Iran in power .
everybody know that .
the CIA do that .
NOVAK but I mean you be attack the CIA for put he in , when it be -- the problem be Khomeini .
SANDERS No , the point I make , Khomeini come about because we put a brutal dictator , the Shah of Iran , in power .
the point that I be make be you can not ... HAYWORTH the point you be make be blame America first .
SANDERS No I be not .
HAYWORTH that be what you be do .
SANDERS you be talk about blowback .
you do not know what happen when the most powerful nation on Earth invade and occupy a muslim nation and kill ten of thousand of people .
HAYWORTH we know what happen .
BEGALA Congressman Sanders -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- .
Bernie Sanders , a Independent from Vermont , thank you very much .
Congressman J.D. Hayworth , a Republican from Arizona , thank you both very much .
we will come back to this debate , believe I .
one of we viewer , though , think there be a sure fire way to get that al Qaeda ring leader to talk .
we will let he fire back in a little bit .
but next , out of all of the picture from this weekend 's nail biter between J.D. Hayworth 's alma mater of -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- state , and Bob Novak 's beloved University of Maryland , only one photo be dramatic enough or politically charge enough to be the crossfire `` Picture of the day . ''
you do not want to miss this .
-lrb- applause -rrb-
NOVAK Question ?
CHRISTA DEMORE Hi .
I be Christa Demore -lrb- ph -rrb- from Monrovia , Maryland .
and I be curious , how can Democrats claim that President Bush be ignore the war on terror if al Qaeda 's second key operative be just catch ?
NOVAK and it also prove you can even chew gum and walk at the same time .
do not it show that ?
BEGALA he can not eat a pretzel and watch a football become at the same time .
so I be still doubtful of -- no , here 's why .
this be a serious point and you deserve a serious answer .
the way we catch that guy be by coordinate with we ally .
we now have a foreign policy in Iraq that be put enormous strain on those ally .
the same weekend they arrest the guy , we have ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- novak we have no part in it .
BEGALA No , it be a joint effort by Pakistan .
why do we want to sever that relationship with this idiotic war in Iraq ?
NOVAK we be not sever it -- question .
BEN CHARLTON Hi .
I be Ben Charlton -lrb- ph -rrb- from East Lansing , Michigan .
I be -- if we wait for U.N. approval for action in Iraq , do not we sacrifice some of we national sovereignty ?
NOVAK Well , where be all of the conservative question ?
we never have conservative in the audience .
there be no question .
I think even Paul would agree with I .
the question of whether we go to war or not be strictly a national question .
it be not a United Nations question .
BEGALA that be correct .
the president have get all of the legal authority he need .
I just pray to god he do not use it .
we need to go to the U.N. because we want to build coalition so we have support around the world and so that we do not have to carry the burden ourselves .
but legally he have no obligation to go back to the U.N. from the left I be Paul Begala .
goodnight for crossfire .
NOVAK from the right , I be Robert Novak .
join we next time for another edition of crossfire .
PAUL BEGALA , CNN CO-HOST hello , everybody .
welcome to crossfire .
on this Ash Wednesday , the pope ask Catholics to fast for peace and he ask President Bush to work for peace , while the White House send out Colin Powell to make yet another case for war .
we will debate all of that as well as `` Vanity Fair '' 's latest , stunning revelation about Michael Jackson .
believe it or not , we get new news on Michael Jackson .
do you think he really look like a mummy ?
certainly not a daddy .
but first , we own little moonwalk across the political landscape , the `` CROSSFIRE Political Alert . ''
the foreign minister of France , Germany and Russia today issue a joint declaration that they will not allow a second american-backed resolution to pass the United Nations Security Council .
President Bush want the Security Council to explicitly authorize force against Iraq , and he press secretary today remain optimistic that in the end , that be just what he will get .
President Bush be say to be focus on one fence-sitting Security Council member , the african nation of Guinea , because he say -- quote -- `` I use to have one of they pig . ''
so -- ok , I make that up .
he do not say that .
TUCKER CARLSON , CNN CO-HOST Well , I suspect that .
you know ... BEGALA but they be a swing vote .
Guinea be a important swing vote .
CARLSON as be Cameroon .
France and Germany be point to inspection and say , look , they be work .
we do not need war .
they be not point out that inspection be work only because there be the credible threat of war .
Saddam would not be destroy missile unless he think he be go to be destroy if he do not .
BEGALA I think that be a good point .
it do not mean we have to go to war .
but I think President Bush should get credit for push to instruction and back they up with the threat of force .
CARLSON it mean when you take the threat of force of the table , you be likely to stop disarm Saddam Hussein .
BEGALA Yes , I be not say take the threat of force .
I be say we do not need to use force right now .
CARLSON Well , France and Germany would like to .
Secretary of State Colin Powell today respond to Saddam Hussein 's latest attempt to fool the world .
Powell call iraqi step toward disarmament -- quote -- `` too little , too late '' gesture , mean to split international resolve to force Baghdad to give up its weapon of mass destruction .
U.S. intelligence say Powell indicate Iraq have hide equipment to produce al-samoud 2 missile , even as it destroy exist one , missile that until recently , it claim not to have .
Powell also reveal that Iraq be hide chemical and biological weapon in poor neighborhood around Baghdad .
in order to secure peace , Powell conclude , the international community must confront Saddam Hussein 's refusal to disarm -- quote -- `` here and now . ''
so , there you have it .
the essence of the american case for war against Saddam Hussein .
the only question leave : who do you believe ?
Secretary of State Colin Powell or France ?
BEGALA No , the question be ... CARLSON that be the question .
BEGALA who do you believe : the Bush administration or you lie eye ?
we be watch they destroy weapon , as the president say , oh , that be just a hoax .
CARLSON but Paul ... BEGALA they be disarm .
CARLSON No , no , no that be not what the president 's say .
he be say , the -- it be a hoax to the extent that those be only a small number of the weapon there .
keep in mind , these be weapon that Saddam Hussein , until recently , say he do not even have .
he be a liar .
BEGALA of course .
CARLSON and to trust Saddam Hussein in effort to disarm he -- foolish task , do not you think ?
BEGALA absolutely .
nobody trust Saddam Hussein .
the question be , be he a sufficient threat to America today to risk the life of we young man and woman .
CARLSON that be a separate question .
that be a very separate question .
BEGALA I think he be not .
I think the inspection can work .
CARLSON that be a different argument .
we can take it up later .
BEGALA Well , those of you who still believe the myth of the liberal media should consider this : MSNBC , a obscure cable channel , have fire Phil Donahue , the host of its highest-rated show .
a memo from inside NBC , report on the web site allyourtv.com , and today in `` the Washington Post , '' show NBC big wig fear that the liberal Mr. Donahue represent in the word of the NBC memo -- quote -- `` a difficult public face for NBC at a time of war , while we competitor be wave the flag at every opportunity because he seem to delight in present guest who be anti-war , anti-bush and skeptical of the administration 's motive . ''
so there it be , accord to NBC .
Phil Donahue be fire because he be a liberal .
in fact , the only liberal with the solo cable talk show .
NBC , of course , be a division of the conglomerate GE , where they apparently only bring right wing thing to life .
CARLSON I actually like Phil Donahue .
I have interview he a number of time .
he argument be really dumb .
I do not know if you have listen to Phil Donahue .
delightful guy , but he argument do not make a lot of sense and I think that be the problem with liberal talk show host -- you exclude , of course , and James .
but the argument , actually , do not hold up very well .
have you notice that ?
BEGALA you know , you can argue back and forth , but you should not fire someone because of they political view and that be what NBC have do and shame on the General Electric corporation .
he have the highest-rated show on the network .
CARLSON which be say what ?
BEGALA I use to work there .
they be good to I .
they be very nice people and they be very good to I ... CARLSON ok , ok , I be not beat up on MSNBC .
BEGALA ... but they should not fire a guy for he political view .
CARLSON Former Illinois Senator Carol Moseley-Braun recently decide to run for president .
early review have not be good , so yesterday she announce she will be make some change .
not to she idea , which be few .
not to she record , which be pretty embarrassing .
not even to she staff , which be , of course , tiny .
but to she name .
from here on out , Carol Moseley-Braun as Carol Moseley Braun .
do you catch the difference ?
in the second version , there be no hyphen between she last name .
Moseley Braun expect that primary voter in Iowa and New Hampshire will react enthusiastically to this radical , grammatical transformation .
they will have to , because the latest CNN poll show Moseley Braun far behind the candidate she set out to discredit .
that would be , of course , the honorable Al Sharpton .
Sharpton be not only by far the first choice of black voter nationally , he be tie with Senator John Edwards among all voter and beat governor Howard Dean , Representative Dennis Kucinich and Senator Bob Graham .
beat they .
and Al Sharpton do not even have to change he name .
BEGALA how do he become honorable ?
CARLSON yes !
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- BEGALA you become honorable by win a election of some sort or have a high post , be a ambassador or a governor or some thing .
CARLSON by embody the value of you party .
BEGALA you value , not mine .
CARLSON he be the no. 1 pick , the most popular , among all candidate , among black primary voter .
I mean , you can not dismiss he .
he be a serious candidate .
BEGALA we have not even begin the primary .
he be not a serious candidate .
he be right wing fantasy and it be never go to happen .
CARLSON not right wing .
take Al Sharpton seriously , that be we message tonight .
in a moment , we will ask two member of Congress if they be convince that war be the only way to make Saddam Hussein disarm .
later , the pope practice religion and a little anti-war politics on the side .
then , can you spell prosthetic nose ?
Maureen Orth can , and she do in a new `` Vanity Fair '' profile of Michael Jackson .
we will talk to she .
you will not want to miss that .
we will be right back .
CARLSON welcome back to crossfire .
France , Russia and Germany today restate they opposition to any new U.N. Security Council that could threaten Saddam Hussein 's grip on power .
Secretary of State Colin Powell go to the U.N. tomorrow to do what he can .
we be talk with potential war in Iraq with Congressman Charlie Rangel , a New York Democrat and he fellow New Yorker Republican Congressman Peter King .
BEGALA Mr. King , thanks for sty with we through the break .
one of the reason that we like have you on , and as well as Mr. Rangel , be that , you know , this be war , as we be say in the last segment .
you treat it with the gravity and the seriousness that it deserve .
and you be a congressman who have put he constituent and he country ahead of he partisan interest .
so I wonder if you will join Charlie Rangel , who put out a press release today , decry the republican attempt to hijack a bill to help we serviceman to use it to give special interest tax break to corporation .
be not that wrong in a time of war ?
king the important thing be that the bill pass for the military .
if the other stuff 's in there , it be there .
I mean to I , the main purpose should be the military .
I be not go to disagree with Charlie 's point .
on the other hand , often when bill be pass , there be thing attach to they .
so to I , the key thing be that we ought to be take care of the military and that be what we should do .
CARLSON Congressman Rangel , a couple of month ago Senator Daschle on CBS say -- make the charge that we be , quote , `` we have not make any real progress in the war against al Qaeda . ''
a lot of Democrats say similar thing .
this weekend Khalid Shaikh Mohammed , the no. 2 member of al Qaeda and another significant al Qaeda member be capture in Rawalpindi , Pakistan .
do not it turn out that Mr. Daschle and other do not know what they be talk about and maybe they should not make charge like that in public when they do not know what they be talk about ?
you would agree with that , would not you ?
RANGEL if they do not have the pencil that be keep score , they ought to keep they mouth shut because as a former federal prosecutor , every drug dealer I bust be the most important drug dealer in the world .
you just pass out number on whoever you arrest .
why be he no. 3 ?
why be not he no. 4 ?
CARLSON Well , I do not know .
because he help plan the attack on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon ?
I think that put you pretty high up in the organization .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- rangel let I tell you , when you arrest somebody , you describe who you be arrest .
I have not the slightest clue who this guy be .
CARLSON I have not hear anybody suggest that he be not one of the central figure in al Qaeda .
have you ?
RANGEL listen , we should be arrest a lot of people .
but I think the main thing that we have now be we should concentrate on Osama bin Laden , we should concentrate on dismantle Saddam Hussein .
we should do all of those thing , but the most important thing be we should not have the arrogance to have a preemptive strike against a defenseless nation without the ... CARLSON A defenseless nation ?
they have biological weapon .
how be they defenseless ?
BEGALA and how would they get they ?
RANGEL listen , if this be ... CARLSON it be we fault that they have biological and chemical weapon ?
come on .
RANGEL let I tell you .
they have it and we support they have it when they be fight Iran so it be no big deal there .
and the thing be that if we can disarm they without actually go there , kill they , I really think that we maintain we moral authority around the world .
we have a lot of people ... -lrb- applause -rrb- rangel ... that have dangerous weapon .
I mean , what happen if India decide that they could have a preemptive strike against Pakistan ?
what happen if the North Koreans take another look ?
we country be great enough and strong enough to maintain the moral authority to convince the international community that we be right .
I do not think we have to kill to prove that .
BEGALA I be sorry to have to do this , but we be out of time .
I want have congressman Peter King from New York back on , and Congressman Charlie Rangel .
thank you both for a very interesting debate .
one of the most admire man in the world be do everything he can to avert the horror of war .
in a minute we will look at he holiness , John Paul II 's effort to be a peacemaker .
later , the author of `` Vanity Fair 's '' scary new look at the King of Pop , Michael Jackson .
you will not want to miss this .
Stay with we .
BEGALA welcome back to crossfire .
maybe it be just I , but I think Michael Jackson , he be kooky , wacky .
Time now for `` Fireback , '' where we wacky and kooky fan and friend and critic right in .
Don from Denver , Colorado write , `` Paul , you keep reference Halliburton sell equipment to Iraq '' -- which I do .
`` I recall , as report in ` the Wall Street Journal , ' that the transaction be legal .
be it possible that the equipment allow Iraq to produce oil for the oil for Food program authorize by the U.N. ? ''
they be legal because Mr. Cheney 's company use a loophole .
they go through a foreign subsidiary .
but they do enrich Saddam Hussein and he evil , ruthless regime , and they be immoral .
they be wrong .
Dick Cheney should have never profit off of do business with Saddam Hussein .
CARLSON I would agree with that .
what do that have to do with the war in Iraq ?
BEGALA it mean Cheney be a hypocrite .
he be try to lead we into a war against one of he value customer .
CARLSON Well it be a complete ... -lrb- crosstalk -rrb- CARLSON you be attack the man .
that be irrelevant to the argument .
BEGALA I be attack he business practice .
CARLSON No , no , you be attack -- ok great .
that be great .
but it have nothing to do whether we should go to war with Iraq or not .
BEGALA Well yesterday he be a value customer , today he be a even villain .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- CARLSON Right .
so we be against Dick Cheney , but that do not have anything to do with Saddam Hussein .
Chad Hensley , from Fairfax , Virginia , write , `` France , Russia and German have all multi-billion dollar oil deal with Saddam in Iraq .
I wonder why they protest the war with Iraq .
it must be the humanitarian reason . ''
well , Chad , that be what liberal assume .
that Europe be against the war on humanitarian and moral grounds , but the U.S. be for the war because it want to profit for the oil company .
it be a weird assumption , do not you think ?
BEGALA as you know , I have never say that .
CARLSON you have not .
BEGALA I do not believe for a minute that this be a war for oil .
I think it be unwise , it be unjust , it be unwarranted , but I do not think it be about oil .
now , the reason that France , Russia and Germany be against war be because they have democracy .
the people be against it .
it be call democracy .
those leader be reflect the view of they people .
CARLSON they hate America , Paul .
CHRISTINA WRIGHT my name be Christina Wright -lrb- ph -rrb- .
I be from Minneapolis , Minnesota .
and I be just curious if you feel that the attack on Iraq would actually open a Pandora 's box in other Middle Eastern country that we be know to aid and harbor terrorist , such as Syria and Iran .
CARLSON it might .
I mean that be absolutely one of the fear .
that it would destabilize the entire region .
on the other hand , the region be pretty unstable , fill with people who already hate Americans and seek to do America harm .
so the question be , could it be worse ?
BEGALA we president believe it will set off a positive domino effect of democracy through the region .
maybe he be right .
I do not think he be think it through .
I think it be more likely that this very unstable region could cause even more problem .
-lrb- crosstalk -rrb- CARLSON oh , come on .
that be silly .
FABIAN Hi .
I be Fabian from Bonn , Germany .
and my question be , after today 's meeting in Paris , where France , Russia and Germany decide to not back a second resolution , who be not -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- ?
be it the U.S. or be it old Europe ?
CARLSON it be actually western Europe , because 18 european country be on the side of the United States .
so France and Germany -- that be actually true -- find themselves in the minority on they own continent .
and good .
BEGALA only great Britain be with we .
the only country ... CARLSON what do you mean only great Britain ?
BEGALA my question be not who vote at the U.N. .
who send troops to die on we side ?
nobody except great Britain .
we be isolate .
from the left , I be Paul Begala .
goodnight for crossfire .
CARLSON from the right , I be Tucker Carlson .
join we again tomorrow night for yet more crossfire .
WOODRUFF we know that some of the american troops now fight in Iraq be longtime veteran of warfare , probably not most , but some .
they military service go back to the Vietnam era .
other , though , be novice .
so what be it like for they to face combat far from home ?
for a idea , here be CNN 's candy Crowley with some war story .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- CANDY CROWLEY , CNN SR. .
political correspondent -lrb- voice-over -rrb- they be , we be tell , well train .
SEN. CHUCK HAGEL -lrb- R -rrb- , NEBRASKA this be a messy business .
there be nothing very pretty about the training that you take to prepare you for combat , because it be to kill people .
CROWLEY in the spring of 1970 , a squad of U.S. soldier spot a small unit of Viet Cong that have be circle for day .
Staff Sergeant Tom Ridge open fire .
a Viet Cong soldier drop dead .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : do you at the time or have you since look back and ponder on kill someone ?
TOM RIDGE , HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY Mm-hmm .
CROWLEY and what be that like ?
RIDGE that be one of those introspective time where it be just -- it be just a introspective time , not a public time .
crowley -lrb- voice-over -rrb- Duke Cunningham be a Vietnam fighter ace shoot down five enemy plane .
after he first , he return to a ship deck full of sailor and crew cheer , shake he hand , push in to slap he back .
REP. RANDY CUNNINGHAM -lrb- R -rrb- , CALIFORNIA and one of the guy look at I and say : Duke , what be it like to kill somebody ?
and , all of a sudden , bang , it just hit I .
you do not think about those thing .
and it be remove .
it be far off .
it be not in close .
and I go to the priest , because it bother I .
I know I could do it again .
but I do not know it be go to bother I as much as it do .
and it still do .
CROWLEY of all the wound time do not heal , the one that fester deep in the soul be the wound you inflict .
ridge it be not something that civilized people do .
you do not -- it be just not -- it be not a matter of be torment , but trouble in the sense that that be not what we do , unless we be call upon to do it , under the most extreme set of circumstance .
CROWLEY War may sometimes be a necessary thing , but it can never be a natural thing .
train bridge that gap .
sergeant Chuck Hagel be seriously wound twice in Vietnam .
HAGEL you be try to kill people , because the alternative be , if you be in combat , you will be kill .
so you choice be not vary .
it be very simple .
and so you do what you be train to do .
you do what you be there to do .
and , in Vietnam , it be body count .
CROWLEY training be what keep you run toward the front while truck load with dead body pass you , go the other way .
REP. CHARLES RANGEL -lrb- D -rrb- , NEW YORK it be hard to explain what training can do .
train set you mind to respond not to common sense and judgment , but to training .
you really do not have time to think : I be go the wrong way .
I should be go the other way .
CROWLEY later , when he be wound and trap behind enemy line in Korea , Staff Sergeant Charlie Rangel lead 40 man , fight they way to safety .
he win a bronze star .
RANGEL if you be kill people , it be out of fear , not really , in my opinion , out of bravery .
nobody be look for medal .
everyone want to live another day .
CROWLEY do not misunderstand .
Rangel , Cunningham , Ridge and Hagel be all proud , decorate combat veteran .
it be just , a decade later , kill still trouble the soul .
maybe that be a good thing .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : do you do it again ?
CUNNINGHAM I do .
I shoot down four more mig .
and I often tell myself -- I say that , if I ever get use to this , I should not be here .
crowley -lrb- voice-over -rrb- candy Crowley , CNN , Washington .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF remarkable interview and a reminder that what these man and woman be go through right now in Iraq , they will remember for the rest of they life .
that be we coverage this hour .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- tuchman -lrb- voice-over -rrb- as they get ready to head over hostile territory , 10 man aboard this Air Force hc-130 search and rescue and refuel plane start to feel they adrenaline rush .
who look out for the unlikely prospect of iraqi aircraft , and the more likely prospect of iraqi missile or artillery .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : do you mindset change across the border into Iraq ?
unidentified male no , because I be in a area which I do not know where the enemy could be and I might get to the airplane , by the time I get out of the airplane I be think the same way .
TUCHMAN which be ?
unidentified male the hair on the back of my neck start stand up , then something 's go wrong .
TUCHMAN -lrb- voice-over -rrb- as a precaution , the crew start turn the huge plane in circle to see what the target do .
ultimately it be discover the target be U.S. combat helicopter .
Minutes later the search and rescue helicopter arrive for its refuel .
watch the flash from we night vision camera as the plane 's fuel line connect with the chopper .
both aircraft fly at 125 mile per hour gingerly over enemy land .
at time they be only 50 foot apart with the chopper 's rotor blade get closer .
look with the naked eye out of the plane , the helicopter be impossible to see .
the pitch-black maneuver end after 10 minute .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : what stop though - we know the Iraqis have fire sand missile and fire AAA at aircraft all throughout this war .
they have not hit anybody , but be not it risky fly so low know they have that ammunition to fire at you .
unidentified MALE Again , we know where we be go .
we know where they be at so we simply avoid they and if for some reason they do get off a lucky shot or they do see we , we have defensive system on board the airplane to defeat they ammunition .
TUCHMAN we all fly with bulletproof vest in case the plane go down .
we also fly with parachute in case we need to get out before the plane go down .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : but three airman aboard this plane have parachute for a different reason .
they be the Pararescue jumper , or pj who jump off the plane for rescue mission .
unidentified male I mean it be probably the most - the best feeling in the world know that you purpose be really define at that moment .
TUCHMAN No rescue be necessary on this sortie .
the plane arrive back to base safely .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : do you have any fear ?
unidentified MALE everybody have a little bit of fear but I think it be a good thing in this circumstance .
TUCHMAN -lrb- voice-over -rrb- this crew could be back on another mission in as few as 24 hour .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- TUCHMAN this be a very busy base .
we want to give you a look right now at the aircraft come in for landing .
it look like lax on a Sunday night and this be what it be be like for the past 11 day .
we have just watch multitude of warplane land , multitude of warplane take off and this may be the busiest night of the campaign .
they be expect a total at this particular base near the iraqi border of 300 sortie in a 24-hour period end today accord to the Air Force total from all the basis and there be more than 30 basis in 12 different country in the Middle East accord to the Pentagon .
they be say there will be 1500 sortie in a 24-hour period end tomorrow .
eight hundred of those sortie will be strike sortie use bomb and missile so there be no slow down in the amount of air power be use over Iraq .
Wolf , back to you .
BLITZER that be a lot of bomb and missile .
Gary Tuchman in a air base near the Iraq border , thanks very much , Gary Tuchman .
this programming note , tomorrow at noon Eastern I will have a special interview with the nation 's top military officer , the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
General Richard Myers will be my special guest on a special late addition .
that be at noon Eastern , nine A.M. Pacific tomorrow .
that be Sunday and I will be back Judy and at the top of the hour for Wolf Blitzer Reports .
we will have a complete wrap of all the day 's late breaking development .
in the meantime , back to Judy Woodruff in Washington .
WOODRUFF we will be watch you both time at the top of the hour and certainly for late edition on Sunday .
thanks Wolf .
well , as coalition force push north , they be encounter a unique problem of combat , get rid of the weapon capture from the enemy .
some of the 40,000 british troops be kick up a lot of dust in the iraqi desert make sure that nothing be leave behind they that could hurt they .
Greg Milam be with the U.K. force in southern Iraq .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- GREG MILAM , CNN CORRESPONDENT seemingly desert , these battered building hold a deadly threat to british force in Iraq .
sergeant GEOFF BANHAM , ROYAL ENGINEERS this be what we be come across a lot of these , 30 mil , 60 mil , 80 mil , even 120 mil .
so there be plenty still out there that will have to be recover because they can be use .
MILAM do you know when this place be last use ?
I mean do you know -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- banham I be not too sure but judge by some of this , it be be here quite a long time so whether it be be use recently by they - there be a Intel upbeat say that they be possibly come back to try and get this to use against they .
MILAM Grenades , mortar , all sort of ammunition abandon by iraqi soldier but there for the taking .
the job of these Royal Engineers be to clear this and many other mountain of armament and destroy they .
some be too unstable to be move and have to be blow up on the spot .
the rest be carry way out into the desert .
and today 's part in this conflict , this kind of work become more and more important .
with the coalition force move forward the last thing they want be weaponry like this lurk behind they .
captain ANDY GOOCH , ROYAL ENGINEERS with the amount of ammunition and weapon leave about , if they would use those system , that amount of weapon it would have give we a considerable amount of trouble try to take the position .
MILAM with much of this weaponry there be only one safe thing to do .
no one in the british force here be willing to take any risk .
Greg Milam , Sky News , Southern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
TUCHMAN this be a very busy base .
we want to give you a look right now at the aircraft come in for landing .
it look like lax on a Sunday night and this be what it be be like for the past 11 day .
we have just watch multitude of warplane land , multitude of warplane take off and this may be the busiest night of the campaign .
they be expect a total at this particular base near the iraqi border of 300 sortie in a 24-hour period end today accord to the Air Force total from all the basis and there be more than 30 basis in 12 different country in the Middle East accord to the Pentagon .
they be say there will be 1500 sortie in a 24-hour period end tomorrow .
eight hundred of those sortie will be strike sortie use bomb and missile so there be no slow down in the amount of air power be use over Iraq .
Wolf , back to you .
BLITZER that be a lot of bomb and missile .
Gary Tuchman in a air base near the Iraq border , thanks very much , Gary Tuchman .
this programming note , tomorrow at noon Eastern I will have a special interview with the nation 's top military officer , the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff .
General Richard Myers will be my special guest on a special late addition .
that be at noon Eastern , nine A.M. Pacific tomorrow .
that be Sunday and I will be back Judy and at the top of the hour for Wolf Blitzer Reports .
we will have a complete wrap of all the day 's late breaking development .
in the meantime , back to Judy Woodruff in Washington .
WOODRUFF we will be watch you both time at the top of the hour and certainly for late edition on Sunday .
thanks Wolf .
well , as coalition force push north , they be encounter a unique problem of combat , get rid of the weapon capture from the enemy .
some of the 40,000 british troops be kick up a lot of dust in the iraqi desert make sure that nothing be leave behind they that could hurt they .
Greg Milam be with the U.K. force in southern Iraq .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- GREG MILAM , CNN CORRESPONDENT seemingly desert , these battered building hold a deadly threat to british force in Iraq .
sergeant GEOFF BANHAM , ROYAL ENGINEERS this be what we be come across a lot of these , 30 mil , 60 mil , 80 mil , even 120 mil .
so there be plenty still out there that will have to be recover because they can be use .
MILAM do you know when this place be last use ?
I mean do you know -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- banham I be not too sure but judge by some of this , it be be here quite a long time so whether it be be use recently by they - there be a Intel upbeat say that they be possibly come back to try and get this to use against they .
MILAM Grenades , mortar , all sort of ammunition abandon by iraqi soldier but there for the taking .
the job of these Royal Engineers be to clear this and many other mountain of armament and destroy they .
some be too unstable to be move and have to be blow up on the spot .
the rest be carry way out into the desert .
and today 's part in this conflict , this kind of work become more and more important .
with the coalition force move forward the last thing they want be weaponry like this lurk behind they .
captain ANDY GOOCH , ROYAL ENGINEERS with the amount of ammunition and weapon leave about , if they would use those system , that amount of weapon it would have give we a considerable amount of trouble try to take the position .
MILAM with much of this weaponry there be only one safe thing to do .
no one in the british force here be willing to take any risk .
Greg Milam , Sky News , Southern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
WOODRUFF that be something to look at .
today the Pentagon be compare suicide bombing attack on coalition force in Iraq to terrorism .
four U.S. Army soldier be kill when a suicide bomber attack a military checkpoint today in Najaf .
CNN 's Chris Plante be chase all that down for we at the Pentagon right now .
hello Chris .
CHRIS PLANTE , CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT Hi , Judy .
that be right .
four U.S. soldier from the 3rd Infantry Division man a checkpoint near the town of Najaf kill today in a apparent suicide bombing .
a man drive what appear to be a taxicab come to the checkpoint , wave soldier over , appear to be have mechanical problem of some kind .
as the soldier approach , the man detonate explosive in the car kill all four of the soldier .
this be something that iraqi Vice President Ramadan have say would take place .
he say this long before the conflict ever begin .
he reiterate today in a press conference in Baghdad that this would just be the beginning of this that they would plan on kill thousand of U.S. troops with suicide bombing similar to this .
also , in southern Iraq today near Basra , two member - claim to be member of Saddam 's Thataeen -lrb- ph -rrb- group surrender to U.S. troops say that they have be order to carry out suicide bombing down there but that they do not want to die for the regime so they be surrender .
at the Pentagon briefing today , General Stanley McChrystal say that it look a lot like terrorism .
MCCHRYSTAL it look and feel like terrorism and what it require be unit to conduct forced production activity which they be prepared and do all the time but clearly when you see a tactic like this , it require strict adherence or adjustment to you tactic , technique and procedure to ensure that place like checkpoint be not vulnerable .
so it will not change we overall rule of engagement .
it do not effect the operation at large but to protect we soldier it clearly require great care .
PLANTE so certainly a unpleasant development today Judy and another item on the docket over here today be the failure of a number of cruise missile .
Tomahawk land detect missile be from launch from ship in the eastern mediterranean and in the Red Sea have suffer a number of failure .
the Pentagon say a total of seven of the cruise missile have fail crash in Turkey and in Saudi Arabia .
no injury report .
the missile be program so that they do not detonate until they reach they target .
if they go astray , then the warhead never arm but claim that it be about one percent of the warhead .
they have fire 675 or so tomahawk land detect missile from ship and seven of those have fail .
Judy ... WOODRUFF Chris , very quickly , new information from the Pentagon today about any concern they have about Saddam Hussein 's ongoing air defense capability ?
PLANTE Well , no major concern .
the Pentagon say that they do have air dominance as they now call it over the vast majority of the country that there be certain area and only certain area of downtown Iraq where battle management radar link to surface to air missile be still in tact .
the reason that they be still in tact accord to today 's briefing be that they have not turn they on and as long as they do not turn they on , the U.S. have trouble locate they .
they assure we that as soon as they do start turn on these radar that they will take those out too and finish the job in term of airspace over Baghdad.Judy ... WOODRUFF All right .
we be pay attention to all those detail for we , Chris Plante at the Pentagon .
you be look at live picture of Baghdad where there have be more strike , more bomb drop , more missile this evening and of course as always , CNN keep a close eye , a close watch , a close listen on what be go on in Baghdad .
come up , coalition force control several part of southern Iraq but they still face some serious problem include pocket of resistance .
that story when we come back .
since march into Iraq , coalition troops have engage in some fierce battle with Saddam Hussein 's force .
a serious problem they still face though , pocket of resistance .
reporter David Bowden be with the british force in Umm Qasr in southern Iraq .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- DAVID BOWDEN , CNN CORRESPONDENT House clearance Royal Marine style , troops from -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- commando task to seek out the last pocket of iraqi resistance in Umm Qasr go in hard to arrest suspect regime sympathizer and search for weapon .
it be not pretty and there be no please and thank you but for the Marines , every door potentially hide a gunman and when you life be on the line , manners go out the window .
the Iraqis arrest look bemused -lrb- ph -rrb- and plead innocence but with many militia here , pretend to surrender only to open fire on they captor later , first impression can be deceptive and lethal .
this patrol do find hidden weapon .
they be not the first and they be unlikely to be the last .
the Marines believe they have a firm hold on Umm Qasr right now but they can not afford to slack in they grip and allow those who be hostile to the coalition force to regroup and begin again they cycle of violence .
the Marines with they sniper have now sniper have now spread they area of operation north to include the town of Umm Kiou -lrb- ph -rrb- .
as in Umm Qasr before it , they be here to clear out the opponent to regime change .
a man in this vehicle take a pot shot at the commando .
it be a painful and bloody mistake .
MAJOR ROB MACGOWAN , ROYAL MARINES we send in one of we company of about 100 man in here this morning and we take about 12 or 13 prisoner , three or four enemy be injure and they have now be fly out and we be treat they include a man who be almost dead with a gunshot wound to the chest .
we have now evacuate they out and the enemy now have either flee or they have be capture .
BOWDEN The Royal Marines be satisfied they be in control of this small corner of Iraq .
they task now be to keep it that way .
David Bowden in southern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
WOODRUFF that report file just a short time ago .
well , CNN analyst Ken Pollack who be with the Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution be with I now .
he be a expert on the iraqi military and its tactic and weapon .
Ken Pollack , that resistance that we just see the british troops deal with , you and I be talk earlier today .
the story the last few day have be the surprising level of resistance but you be tell I you sense be that the coalition force be begin to adjust to that .
KEN POLLACK , CENTER for MIDDLE EAST POLICY , BROOKINGS INSTITUTION Right .
I mean we be see one of the great advantage of U.S. and british force now , Judy , which be that they be superbly train troops .
they have training in a whole variety of different mission and they be adapt .
they recognize now they go in with some false assumption about the kind of reception that they be go to face .
the plan that be implement have some inherent risk in it , risk to the supply line , risk in term of not clear city and they be shift .
they be change and the troops be train well enough to be able to deal with that .
you have see U.S. Central command bring up additional force like the 82nd Airborne Division to better deal with these long supply line , get control over the city and so I think that U.S. and british force be begin to stabilize the battlefield .
WOODRUFF so as a onlooker , as somebody who be study the iraqi capability , be it you sense that the coalition can continue to adjust to whatever they deal with ?
POLLACK absolutely .
one of the thing I think we be likely to see be that the Iraqis be go to have a tougher time adapt than U.S. force be .
typically what you have see in the iraqi armed force be the change have to come from the top .
it do not come from the ground up .
you do not have ground commander call back and say hey , we would like to try this tactic or this seem to work .
tell everybody else to do the same thing .
instead the high command have to identify a problem , come up with a solution and transmit it down .
chance be the Iraqis be go to continue to stick with what we have see before , irregular force blend in with civilian try to attack U.S. force , some more of these suicide attack which be go to be problematic for we troops .
there be no way around that but U.S. force , british force be begin to adapt to it .
WOODRUFF I want to ask you about you mention coalition force go in expect more support from ordinary iraqi people .
I just interview a gentleman , native of Iraq , who talk to he family there all the time and he say they live in Baghdad 20 , 30 , 50 of they and he say they do the view the Americans as invader .
they hate Saddam Hussein .
they do not like what he be do but they do not think the Americans be the answer .
POLLACK All right .
well , this be something that we have be try to get a grip on for year , exactly what the iraqi people feel and also that I think the best evidence that we have before the attack begin be that Iraqis do , they despise .
they be desperate to be rid of he but by the same token , they do not like another country come into they country to overturn the government and beyond that , I think it be probably most important for most Iraqis be they be deeply suspicious of the United States .
they remember that the United States betray they in 1991 .
the U.S. do not finish Saddam then .
President Bush - then President Bush call on they to rise up and then the U.S. do nothing and so they be deeply suspicious of what we have in mind .
WOODRUFF which raise question go forward .
one last thing , Ken Pollack I want to ask about this british official say that they have information that Saddam Hussein have fire he air defense chief .
what be the significance of that ?
POLLACK Well , if it be true and obviously we do not know just yet but if it be true , it be very significant because it be effectively the Iraqis admit that many of the civilian casualty that we have see over the last few day may in fact have be cause by iraqi surface to air missile fall back to ground in residential area .
WOODRUFF -lrb- INAUDIBLE -rrb- POLLACK exactly , in that market and I think it be pretty apparent when you look at the video of that market , if that have be a U.S. bomb or a U.S. cruise missile , that market would have be obliterate .
chance be it be a iraqi surface to air missile .
WOODRUFF we be go to go quickly to northern Iraq now where we find CNN correspondent Ben Wedeman .
there be be some action in that area .
Nick -lrb- ph -rrb- - I mean - I be sorry .
Ben , we can make you out just barely but tell we what you have be see .
BEN WEDEMAN , CNN CORRESPONDENT Yes .
Judy , you be see we through the night scope because basically for the last hour we have be watch as this ridge behind I in Kalak which of course be the front line between Iraq and Kurdish -lrb- ph -rrb- force , we have be watch as plane , plane we can hear but can not see , have be bombing the ridge line behind we .
five huge explosion within the space of less than a hour as these plane drop these massive bomb on the iraqi position behind we .
not just iraqi position behind we , in addition to that in the direction of Mosul as well which be a major northern iraqi city about 28 mile to the west of I .
we have also see some massive blast to the south as well so it appear that this bombing in this area continue and we have really see the most intense bombing of the war in this area in the last 24 hour .
Judy ... WOODRUFF Ben , what be you best understanding of what it be on the ground that the coalition force be go after there ?
WEDEMAN Well , basically on the ridge itself it be the most forward iraqi army position and we have be watch they very closely for the last month prior to the war to the outbreak of the war and basically these be the position that control this entire valley .
up there they have heavy machine gun .
they have mortar .
they have anti-tank gun , hundred of man along this very long ridge that basically run from the north to the south .
in addition to that , we know that further back behind those line in the direction of Mosul there be heavy artillery and tank as well , this accord to the people here in this area , the local Kurds who have be go across the line for many year basically engage in smuggling .
now precisely what they be hit to the south of we be unclear but my understanding be that there be further iraqi position in that direction as well .
Judy ... WEDEMAN Ben Wedeman describe coalition hit in the area where he be , the town of Kalak in northern Iraq .
he just call in and we want to get this report to you right away .
Ben , very - we thank you very much for that and we will be come back to you as the night - as the night wear on .
we be get close to the bottom of the hour .
we be go to get some headline at the hour right now with Heidi Collins .
WOODRUFF I hope they get a little rest .
when we come back , one of the many sad aspect of this war , humanitarian aid rush to people who need it but not everybody get what they come for .
slowly humanitarian aid be roll into southern Iraq but dramatic scene like this one of a crowd tear into the supplies on a convoy truck only underscore how desperate the need be .
correspondent Martin Geissler file this report from the iraqi town of Safwan .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- MARTIN GEISSLER , CNN CORRESPONDENT as we convoy roll through southern Iraq the desperation of the people here soon become evident .
in truck and on foot they come to the town of Safwan .
these people have be without food or water supplies since the war begin .
now they be desperate .
within seconds the Kuwaiti aid worker who have organize this trip be overpower by the mob .
these desperate scene be exactly what the aide agency want to avoid .
this be survival of the fittest .
only the healthy and strong can get to the food .
the weak and the ill be leave with nothing .
despite this effort to help the iraqi people , resentment be never far away .
unidentified male we hate U.S. .
we hate british , England .
we hate any state in war here .
GEISSLER what do you think about Saddam 's regime ?
unidentified MALE Saddam 's very good man .
GEISSLER as the supplies run out the mood swing from frantic to ugly .
delivery driver be threaten .
one of the bus in we convoy be hold up at knifepoint .
the troops have move into Safwan .
we , as a consequence , have have to move out .
it be simply too dangerous .
this be a clear indication that despite the coalition reassurance that this part of Iraq be safe and despite the aid be bring into the people here , it be still a very , very volatile area .
Tonight here the strong be eat .
the weak still go hungry .
Martin Geissler , ITV News , Safwan southern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF so many different picture we be get from across that country .
well , they be make they voice hear at home and abroad .
when we return , Americans this weekend be march against the war and in support of the troops .
we will check out some of the demonstration .
here in the United States this weekend just as they do last weekend , anti-war protester take to the street .
in Los Angeles , the International Black Coalition for Peace and Justice be sponsor a rally for peace today .
Congresswoman Maxine Waters be among those schedule to attend .
in the meantime further north in California , San Francisco be the setting today for a rally aim at boost the moral of the american troops in the Persian Gulf region .
CNN 's Rusty Dornin be with we from San Francisco .
Rusty , what sort of crowd be show up there ?
RUSTY DORNIN , CNN CORRESPONDENT Well Judy , this be the largest group really we have see of the support the troops rally that have be over the last few week .
of course this be the home of the anti- war demonstration stem back to the Vietnam war but there be close to between 500 and 1,000 people .
I be get various estimate on the crowd .
we do want to show you a interesting thing here .
some folk be show some solidarity with the speaker here .
you be look at some of San Francisco 's police department 's officer .
I do ask they why they do that .
they say they be wear skullcap so they decide to adopt this to show solidarity .
they say the department have not make any statement about whether they think that be all right or not .
this have be a very peaceful demonstration .
as I say , the officer do tell I that this be the largest pro-troops demonstration that have ever be in San Francisco since the Vietnam War .
so far , very peaceful .
as I say , there have be a few verbal exchange but one of the most enthusiastically receive speaker here be Bessam Al-Husaini , a iraqi American .
he be with the iraqi American Council .
how do you feel about support the troops ?
how do the iraqi American Council feel ?
BESSAM AL-HUSAINI , IRAQI AMERICAN COUNCIL Well the iraqi American have be wait for this liberation and they want to get rid of Saddam so bad and they will have to take it the way it be be offer to we .
DORNIN how do you feel though see picture of civilian injure in the bombing ?
AL-HUSAINI we get report that these civilian especially in the -lrb- inaudible -rrb- population have be attack by the iraqi regime themselves so they can not blame the american and say look what the american do to we .
he would love to see this and would draw on this emotion from the Arab world and the european country .
DORNIN now you say you do talk to you family in Baghdad as well and they also be somewhat suspicious of the Americans .
AL-HUSAINI Well , I mean the iraqi people have be the primary victim from the whole thing .
yeah my family , you know , still in fear .
you know they stay in one room .
they board all the - all the window and they build with a brick one of the window face the street .
I mean yes , you know , my prayer to they but we can only do so much .
hopefully it will be a short war .
it will be attack the iraqi regime .
we can live in liberty and freedom soon .
DORNIN now I understand some of the people here have be threaten by anti-war protester .
have you have anyone either threaten you or ... AL-HUSAINI No , no problem .
this have be a very peaceful demonstration .
DORNIN ok .
thank you very much .
AL-HUSAINI thank you .
DORNIN Bessam Al-Husaini here and it have be a very peaceful demonstration .
it be wrap up this afternoon and it look like the civil disobedience act by the anti-protester be schedule to get underway once again next week .
Judy ...
WOODRUFF it be in northern Iraq today that a eight artillery round hit the site occupy by kurdish fighter near Chamchamal .
it happen near a area abandon earlier by iraqi force .
CNN 's Kevin Sites be in northern Iraq .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- KEVIN site , CNN CORRESPONDENT this be the road to Kirkuk .
a day ago it be control by iraqi troops and pack with these land mine but now we can drive far enough to see the outskirts of Kirkuk .
that be because coalition fighter jet pummel this iraqi position on the hill above Chamchamal and iraqi troops make a hasty retreat .
this be what the hilltop look like now , crater 15 foot deep , busted bunker and twisted metal , scatter ammunition and tattered clothing , a helmet , a tube of toothpaste .
kurdish peshmerga fighter take they place .
I be glad to see they go this one say .
they kill a lot of we people in Chamchamal but I feel bad for they too .
some of they be only conscript .
some Kurds take advantage of the iraqi retreat right away .
this one take a bulldozer to a concrete portrait of Saddam Hussein .
it take about 20 minute but finally it come topple down .
he say after finish the job he hope Saddam Hussein himself will fall too but despite the exuberance of Kurds in the area , it be clear it be much too early to celebrate .
although the Iraqis retreat from this area , at dusk they fire what observer say be seven artillery round back at they former stronghold create new fear and potentially new casualty .
Kevin Sites , CNN Chamchamal northern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF all right and when we return , wait here on the home front , a very special reunion between a Marine and he wife .
there be no greater gap probably than that between the troops overseas and they love one here at home .
CNN help bridge that cassum -lrb- ph -rrb- at least temporarily between Sergeant Craig Martin of the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit and he wife Kaycee Martin in California .
they talk by videophone this morning .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- ANDERSON COOPER , CNN ANCHOR you be eight month pregnant I believe .
how have this be for you ?
KAYCEE MARTIN , WIFE of SOLDIER it be be difficult .
it be hard without he .
I be do ok but it would be much better if he be home with I .
COOPER if I could just ask , I mean and you know I do not want to pry so anytime I ask something you do not want to say just tell I to shut up but what be it like for you watch all this coverage ?
I mean watch , you know , the access .
the picture be see be really historic in what we be able to see .
be it more - do it make it more difficult ?
do it make it easier ?
K. MARTIN it be very difficult .
it be hard .
the whole time though you be just sit there try to catch a glimpse just to see if maybe one of the people on tv be he but you know he tell I do not watch , do not watch .
you know , it be go to be difficult but like I say , it be just too hard .
I want to be able to see just to make sure that he be ok , just catch a glimpse of he .
COOPER how do he look to you right now ?
K. MARTIN he look all right , but dirty .
SGT. CRAIG MARTIN , 15TH MARINE EXPEDITIONARY UNIT I lose my tooth .
K. MARTIN Beautiful .
thanks .
thanks for show I .
COOPER how would you - how would you lose you tooth ?
C. MARTIN Sorry .
COOPER can I ask ?
how do you lose you tooth ?
C. MARTIN when we come across the bridge , the enemy launch some 155 artillery round at we .
it come pretty close and the concussion knock my tooth out .
K. MARTIN Great .
C. MARTIN Yes .
K. MARTIN it do not sound like you be be too careful .
C. MARTIN it be fun though .
we be all right .
COOPER Sergeant Martin I do not know if you see , you wife 's sort of shake she head .
C. MARTIN Careful as I can be .
it be all good .
COOPER Sergeant Martin , be there anything else ... C. MARTIN I love you .
COOPER be there anything else you would like to say either to you wife or to all the people who be watch this ?
I know this awkward , you know , do this on tv and I hate to put you in this position but feel free .
C. MARTIN yeah .
I have get a couple of thing real quick .
to my old man , this be not a distraction .
to my wife , we will be home soon and I love you .
that be all I have get to say .
COOPER Well that say a lot .
Kaycee , anything else you want to say ?
K. MARTIN I love you very much .
I miss you very much .
everyone be pray for you and I just want you to come home safe and soon so you could see we new baby .
C. MARTIN one more thing , you look really beautiful right now .
K. MARTIN thanks .
I would like to say the same to you .
C. MARTIN that be stylish .
do not worry .
we will take it home .
K. MARTIN Well , just come home soon .
C. MARTIN without a doubt .
K. MARTIN -- well , just come home soon .
C. MARTIN I will try baby .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- woodruff a little embarrassing for we to watch .
it be get to be difficult talk to you love one in front of thousand and thousand of people on television , million .
well , in addition to the baby on the way , the Martins also have a three-year-old daughter .
and that be it for this hour .
I be Judy Woodruff in Washington .
Wolf Blitzer 's report start right now .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- WALTER RODGERS , CNN SR. .
INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- the situation here appear to be increasingly tense .
a few moment ago , out on the horizon , not very far ahead of the U.S. Army 's 3rd squadron , 7th Cavalry , we hear more than a few explosion .
the U.S. Army 's 3rd squadron , 7th Cavalry have compile a rather extraordinary record in the past several day .
it be the first unit to cross the Euphrates River and then punch northward to within 60 mile of Baghdad .
it be the Army which assign I to the 3rd squadron , 7th Cavalry , and that be extremely fortuitous .
it be like sit in a poker game and draw four ace , because this be a crack unit .
it be the tip of the tip of the spear .
we have have a absolutely terrific story , push forward north toward Baghdad .
seventy-two hour of that be under constant fire come at we from both side of the road .
unidentified male we just hear a incoming -- what the hell !
unidentified male no , no , I do not know what it be .
RODGERS recall Winston Churchill 's old quote , `` there be nothing so exhilarating as be shoot at and miss . ''
what you try to do be stay calm and continue you broadcasting .
the worst thing you can do , either as a soldier or as a war correspondent be panic .
we be hear incoming .
we be not sure what it be .
we see some stuff in the sky .
we may have to break this off .
I think we be go to break off this live shot for the time be .
we be not sure what we see up there .
Goodbye .
we have get to dive for vehicle , we think .
see you .
bye .
we have under heavy fire for the past couple of mile .
mostly small arm fire , but the sand storm have enable the Iraqis to come very close to the road , and if I sound a little nervous , it be because we be in the soft skin vehicle and everybody else be in armor .
we would like to now show you what we call old Betsy -lrb- ph -rrb- , a re-used , secondhand U.S. Army Humvee that we have be travel with .
any bullet will pass through it , even a .22 caliber bullet .
you can see we body armor drape on the door .
this be what we have literally be live in .
this be the kitchen , when we be down , and we be very fortunate , because we have get a teapot .
that be my cubby hole .
it be extraordinary cramped , because -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- sandbag the floor , in case we hit a mine .
that be all the space I have to eat and sleep in .
you do not sleep .
you really do not sleep out here .
of course , you be on a adrenaline high , but race across the desert , you know that you be travel toward the jaw of what could be a major military battle .
you have to realize , they have be ride along , bounce along in these tank for probably six or more hour now .
and if you ride inside that tank , it be like ride in the bowels of a dragon .
they roar , they screech .
the hardest part of the trip be personal discomfort .
we can not tell you the level of personal discomfort we have experience .
the extraordinary sandstorm , the bitter cold night .
the most uncomfortable thing be have to sleep sit up in a humvee with sandbag under you foot , you knee at you chin .
that be excruciatingly uncomfortable , not something that you would wish on anybody but a contortionist .
let I give you a example of what the dust like .
look at this .
we have be through day of dust like that .
the U.S. Army 's 7th Cavalry have just take three iraqi prisoner of war .
actually , they be very close , that be to say , no more than 40 yard away , but the dust and sand be blow so badly you be get these vague image .
it be like be in a blizzard , except unfortunately , the sand do not melt as the snow do .
what we eat be what the Army call mre , meal ready to eat .
and I must say , they be pretty darn good .
and of course , everybody fight for the best one .
the treat be thing like the m&m s and the breakfast toasty .
the Army be eat much , much better than the grandfather of these soldier do and the great grandfather of these soldier in the second World War .
let I hold the camera and show you my crew .
on camera left be Charlie Miller -lrb- ph -rrb- , he be be we superb and intrepid cameraman .
on my right be Jeff Barweis -lrb- ph -rrb- , a brilliant satellite engineer .
that be the crew which really bring you these picture .
the picture you be see be absolutely phenomenal .
these be live picture of the 7th Cavalry racing across the desert .
you have never see battlefield picture like these before .
what you be watch here be truly historic television and journalism .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- CROWLEY Walter Rodgers with the 3-7th .
just ahead we will have the latest on today 's suicide bombing in Israel .
a report from CNN 's Kelly Wallace when we return .
CROWLEY we will be back later on the war in Iraq .
but first , we want to go somewhere else in the region to tell you that dozen be injure today in the first suicide bombing in Israel in three week .
CNN 's Kelly Wallace report on today 's attack in Netanya .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- KELLY WALLACE , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- on camera -rrb- it have be very quiet inside Israel since the start of the u.s.-led war against Iraq .
many Israelis be fear that quiet would come to a end .
and it do on this day .
police say a suicide bomber blow himself up outside this cafe , call the London Cafe , earlier Sunday afternoon .
we can show you some picture from earlier Sunday .
people here tell we the cafe be fill with people enjoy the spring weather .
many here though say they be relieve only one person dead , the suicide bomber .
dozen , though , injure , include some israeli soldier , because accord to a eyewitness , he say many soldier be here also enjoy the spring weather .
unidentified male then it be big bomb .
and many soldier .
two soldier be down here .
many blood .
many people skip from here .
big paranoia .
WALLACE there have be many terrorist attack here in Netanya , include the deadliest suicide bombing ever in Israel almost exactly a year ago , March 27 , at the Park Hotel during Passover , 29 people kill in that attack .
as for this attack , the palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad be claim responsibility .
accord to a leaflet from the group obtain by CNN , the group say the attack be to show the union of Palestinians with the people of Iraq .
the group be also claim that Islamic Jihad militant be already inside Iraq to carry out attack against U.S. and british force .
Israel have be on a heighten state of alert since the start of the u.s.-led war against Iraq .
and now many Israelis fear they could see more attack like the one they see here today as the military campaign against Saddam Hussein continue .
I be Kelly Wallace , CNN , report from Netanyahu , Israel .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- crowley a baseball legend rally the troops .
up next , pitch great Roger Clemens talk about he experience meet U.S. service member in Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf .
WOLF BLITZER , CNN ANCHOR Hi , Judy .
thank you very much .
as of a hour or so ago , we get word from the battlefield that U.S. force be just 15 mile away from the southern edge of Baghdad .
and they may be even closer right now .
the toughest fight , though , may lie ahead in the heart of the iraqi capital .
Pentagon source say the first phase of the final push into Baghdad be now under way .
u.s.-led force be able to press farther north after defeat iraqi Republican Guard unit at Karbala and Kut -lrb- ph -rrb- .
we embedded reporter say the two-pronged advance appear to be move faster than commander expect .
the Pentagon say two of the Republican Guard division defend Baghdad be no longer credible force .
scene from Najaf may also be bolster the troops ' spirit .
Iraqis who initially be cautious when U.S. force arrive in Najaf end cheer they on , shake they hand and pat they back .
U.S. Army 's 7th Cavalry be in the forefront of U.S. troops since they first leave Kuwait and cross directly into the iraqi desert .
we Walter Rodgers be embed with the unit 's 3rd squadron , which be lead the 3rd Infantry Division 's march toward the iraqi capital .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- WALTER RODGERS , CNN CORRESPONDENT throughout the day , as the U.S. Army 7th Cavalry punch northward in the general direction of Baghdad , we have see huge convoy of supply troops move ever northward .
indeed , all the arrow on the Army 's map seem to be point in the direction of the southern suburb of Baghdad .
earlier in the day , the 1st brigade of the 3rd Infantry Division take Karbala with a minimum of fight .
and then the 3rd brigade of the 3rd Infantry Division secure the town of Karbala .
additionally , the 7th Cavalry have push onward in the general direction of Baghdad .
yesterday we be about 50 mile from the southern suburb of Baghdad .
we have perhaps have that distance .
throughout the day , we have watch the 3rd Infantry Division bring in prisoner of war .
iraqi soldier glad the war be over for they , perhaps 100 at a time .
there be time when the 7th Cavalry itself get into some skirmish as it push forward , again in the direction of Baghdad .
there be a bit of a firefight when the 7th Cavalry come upon three soviet vintage 20 - millimeter anti-aircraft gun , ack-ack gun .
the iraqi unit in possession of those gun fire mortar in the direction of the 7th Cavalry .
the Apache troop open its tank gun , open its own mortar , decimate that unit , put it out of existence and probably kill some 20 Iraqis in the process .
this as it continue to push ever closer towards the southern suburb of Baghdad .
Walter Rodgers , CNN , with the U.S. 7th Cavalry in the iraqi desert .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- BLITZER and it be a similar story from CNN 's Karl Penhaul who be now just mile from the southern outskirts of the iraqi capital .
he be embedded with the U.S. Army 's 11th attack helicopter regiment .
here be he report just file a few minute ago .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- karl penhaul , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- the speed as they push to Baghdad seem to have gather pace overnight and in the course of this morning .
in fact , it be go much faster than many of the U.S. commander on the ground predict .
CAPT. BRIAN MCCORT , pilot the intensity it be very quick moving , very fluid battle .
the armor , and mechanized infantry , and artillery piece and personnel on the ground be move at rapid speed .
PENHAUL Overnight and early this morning , the tank and Bradley fight vehicle of the 3rd Infantry Division back by the Apache attack helicopter of the 11th Aviation Regiment punch through the Republican Guard defens in and around Karbala .
they be then able to advance far north of that city and , as we speak , U.S. commander tell I that element of the 3rd Infantry Division be now literally just a few mile from Baghdad .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
BLITZER that be CNN 's Karl Penhaul with the very latest from the battlefront .
let 's get a update now on casualty on Operation iraqi freedom .
military official say 39 Americans have be kill in combat , 9 more by friendly fire or a accident .
Britain report 6 of its troops have be kill by combat , 19 more in nonhostile action and 2 death have not be classify .
Iraq do not report on its military casualty , but iraqi official say 420 civilian have be kill and about 4,000 injure .
U.S. Central command say 4,500 Iraqis have be take prisoner .
seven Americans remain prisoner of war in Iraq and 15 american be list as miss in action .
one less than yesterday after that dramatic rescue of Private First Class Jessica Lynch .
Judy , in the next hour , on we special `` WOLF BLITZER report , '' I be go to be speak live to she older brother who be in the Army , she younger sister who want to be in the Army , just around the same time as Jessica be go to be arrive at Ramstein , the air base in Germany for some serious medical treatment .
that be all come up on we special edition of `` WOLF BLITZER report '' at the top of the hour .
Judy , back to you .
WOODRUFF All right , Wolf , and we will be watch .
thanks very much .
well , at the Pentagon briefing this afternoon , official describe several unit of the Republican Guard as effectively no longer be a credible fight force .
let 's get the very latest from the Pentagon for the overall war picture as they see it .
we Jamie McIntyre we senior military affair correspondent be with we now .
hello , again , Jamie .
JAMIE MCINTYRE , CNN SNR .
military affair CORRESPONDENT Well Judy , the Pentagon be begin to see positive sign that it have not see for awhile .
First of all , as we see just a few moment ago on CNN , the picture of some of the actual happy iraqi citizen welcome U.S. troops , that take place in Najaf .
also the Pentagon be see lighter than expect resistance indicate at least that they may have really seriously degrade those Republican Guard division before the U.S. troops arrive , both in Karbala and also in Al Kut .
they meet lighter than expect resistance .
but the Pentagon official stress that as they close in on Baghdad , this become the real dangerous part as they enter that so - call red zone where Saddam Hussein be believe to have give he commander authority to use chemical weapon , and that use of chemical weapon remain a real fear at the Pentagon .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- MAJOR GENERAL STANLEY MCCHRYSTAL , joint chief , vice dir .
we be not expect to drive into Baghdad suddenly and seize it in a coup de main , or anything like that .
so , in regard to that , we be pay great attention to they ability to defend on the ground .
they may just suddenly be effective on the ground .
additionally , they ability to use chemical and biological weapon , they have prove it historically .
we believe they have the capability now .
clearly , as we threaten the core of the regime , which Baghdad and Tikrit represent , we believe that the likelihood of they use those weapon go up .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- BLITZER in less than 24 hour , the U.S. 101st Airborne Division have drive iraqi Fedayeen fighter from the key city of Najaf , push north in a several-pronged attack .
the Army 's 3rd Infantry have punch through Karbala , meet only light resistance from the Medina Republican Guard , and move along highway nine within 25 mile of Baghdad .
at the same time , the Marines from the 1st division have secure a key Tigris River cross near Al Kut and report to have essentially destroy the combat fighting ability of that light infantry Baghdad division that be suppose to be provide defense down there .
at the U.S. Central command briefing this morning at the forward headquarters in Doha , Qatar , General Vincent Brooks say that the U.S. would be continue to approach Baghdad .
he say , quote , `` the dagger be clearly point at the heart of the regime now , and it will remain pointed at it , '' he say , `` until the regime be go . ''
Judy .
WOODRUFF Jamie , these description of the weakening of the Republican Guard begin to bring back memory of the first Gulf War 12 year ago .
be there a chance that coalition force could , at this point , be overestimate the strength of what be left of the opposition ?
MCINTYRE Well , they might be .
and that might be a good thing .
they be take it very cautiously .
no one , again , they stress the most dangerous part of this could be ahead .
could be urban combat .
could involve chemical weapon .
could be the most loyal fighter leave as they draw into Baghdad .
could be a very dangerous time .
they also be careful to point out that even while they say that the division have be destroy , they do not mean every single person have be kill .
simply that its combat effectiveness have be eliminate - Judy .
WOODRUFF we notice they say they do not want to use the word destroy , in fact , they say let other do that .
Jamie McIntyre at the Pentagon .
WOODRUFF Well , rescue american prisoner of war Jessica Lynch be expect to arrive at Ramstein air base in Germany just about a hour from now .
CNN will have live coverage of she arrival .
Lynch be rescue in a daring raid by U.S. force on the Saddam hospital in Nasiriya .
this nightscope video show troops carry the 19-year-old Army private to a Blackhawk helicopter .
we know , though , that 11 body be also recover in this operation , and military official say they be work now to identify they .
when she be in Germany , Lynch will be treat for bullet wound and broken bone .
she be report to be in stable condition .
she and more than a dozen other member of she Army maintenance unit be ambush near Nasiriya more than a week ago .
WOODRUFF meantime in Palestine , West Virginia , there be a lot of joy over the news of Jessica Lynch 's rescue .
she father , mother and other family member say they never give up hope , despite they fear of what might have happen .
and they say they be grateful to she rescuer .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- GREG LYNCH , JR , JESSICA LYNCH 's brother I can not really say how the military be function over there because I be not there .
but they be do a job , you know , I do not know the thought of the soldier , the man and woman that go into that building and bring she out .
they be hero in my book .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- WOODRUFF West Virginia 's United States Senator Robert Byrd be also praise the rescue .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- SEN. ROBERT BYRD -lrb- D -rrb- , WEST VIRGINIA she be rescue in a daring effort by the brave Army ranger and Navy SEALS .
and today she be safe .
safe .
safe once again .
she state of West Virginia be relieve .
she community be exuberant .
she family be overjoy .
I speak with Jessica Lynch 's father last evening and share with he we thought and good wish .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- WOODRUFF Senator Byrd call the rescue miraculous .
we will have more on the march toward Baghdad after a quick break .
we preview the potential battle ahead and the strategy in play when we check in with we military analyst .
-lrb- commercial break -rrb-
WOODRUFF U.S. force move ever closer to Baghdad , but military official say they be not count on capitulation .
for a look at what might lie ahead for U.S. force , let 's turn to we Miles O'Brien in Atlanta .
mile o'brien , CNN ANCHOR thank you very much , Judy .
to help guide we through all this discussion about red zone , and dagger and exactly what be the strength of the Republican Guard , we turn to Colonel Patrick Lang .
he be retire with the United States Army .
he spend some time in the Defence Intelligence Agency , among other thing .
Colonel , good to have you with we .
COL. PAT LANG -lrb- RET , -rrb- , U.S. ARMY you be welcome .
O'BRIEN what do you suppose right now would be the governor on the forward advance ?
be it the Republican Guard or be it the U.S. and coalition supply line ?
or both ?
LANG Well , they be close enough up to Baghdad now so that the supply line issue be probably not a big one since they have time to restock , food , fuel and ammunition .
so , probably the main thing be comb through the rubble that the air force have leave of these Republican Guard division to make sure there be no strong point that you leave behind , that could threaten you line of supply once they get past .
once they be satisfied they be through all that , I would imaging there will be a pause while they start to reconnoiter into Baghdad , probe hard to see how much resistance there really be .
O'BRIEN Well , let I ask you that .
First of all , I just want to tell viewer where we just take we satellite imagery .
this be that Karbala area which be about 50 mile from Baghdad .
Baghdad be roughly in that direction from there .
we know the vanguard be supposedly as close as 15 mile .
one of the next key point along the way here be Saddam international airport .
do you suppose that be a key target right now ?
LANG oh , I be sure it be .
I mean a feature of that importance would always be something you would want to hold .
and besides , as soon as you get control of it you would be able to start use it for air operation , and put a survey team in there as soon as it be secure , and then start use it for helicopter operation , haul forward some big bladder of fuel to refuel helicopter and rearm they and thing like that .
and if the front stabilize between there and the downtown Baghdad , they will start use it for a fixed wing aircraft as well .
O'BRIEN now , as you go from Saddam International Airport into town you see there be some big , wide divided highway there .
control of these highway will be crucial will not it ?
LANG yeah , these be the high-speed approach into the heart of the city and armored force like the 3rd mechanized Infantry Division just love high-speed approach .
they will try to go down those thing , cut the city up into sector as best they can , and then work on the specific sector of the city they think be a key terrain .
I would think , probably , various facility as well as major government building that they need to control to set up a new government .
O'BRIEN it be a big city , about the size of Philadelphia or thereabout .
some have say Chicago be a good analogy .
tremendous amount of force need to control a city of that source , or be a wrong ?
LANG Well , it depend on the attitude of the populous , which be not clear yet .
if the population , in fact , or at least a big part of they like the shia half of the population , if they want to be liberate , then you can control they with a fairly small force .
if , in fact , a lot of people in the city do not want to be liberate and you be never go to know that until you try , then you be go to need a much larger force , and we might end up wait a couple of week for reinforcement .
O'BRIEN base on what you have see so far , what be you sense of that ?
the Shias be a bit gun shy , if you will , in the south because of what happen in 1991 .
they rise up , do not get american support .
do you suppose it will be a different story in Baghdad ?
be there a lot of latent hatred for Saddam Hussein that will come out ?
LANG Yes , there be , but these folk be go to be mighty cautious .
they have a long history of be kick around by the Sunni Arab population of central Iraq .
and they do not have any particular reason to trust we , so far .
so they will wait and see what happen .
it be the other people in the city you have to worry about , who be ethnically much the same as the Saddam Hussein regime .
and they behavior right now be unpredictable .
O'BRIEN Colonel Patrick Lang , retire , United state Army , thanks for you insight .
a man who have be to Baghdad many time and can tell we with great knowledge exactly what it be go to be like to fight on those avenue in that sprawling city of Baghdad - Judy .
WOODRUFF Always help Miles to hear a voice of experience .
thank you and thanks to Colonel Lang .
when we come back , hope rise among investor .
that mean stock be up today on Wall Street as they look at the progress of the war in Iraq .
we be go to check in with Rhonda Schaffler at the stock exchange in just a moment .
WOODRUFF as coalition force push ahead in they march toward Baghdad , they have encounter some resistance in the Shiite holy city of Karbala .
but american troops and they superior technology have turn out to be a key factor in the fight there .
and to the south , british force continue they attack on target around Basra .
ITN correspondent Tim Ewart report .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- TIM EWART , ITN CORRESPONDENT these be soldier of the U.S. 3rd Infantry , fight near Karbala , southwest of Baghdad .
they be face Saddam Hussein 's Republican Guard , he finest soldier .
but for all the resistance , coalition aircraft rule the sky and coalition technology be overwhelmingly superior .
U.S. commander believe the Republican Guard be a doomed force .
BRIG. GEN. VINCENT BROOKS , U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND we will approach Baghdad .
the dagger be clearly point at the heart of the regime right now and will remain pointed at it until the regime be go .
EWART to the south , more black smoke over the town of Basra .
british troops control the outskirts of the town , and today destroy another building they say house iraqi fighter .
there be much fear here of the Saddam loyalist who still hold sway in Basra and of the invade troops wait at the gate .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : the Americans be race towards Baghdad , the British still seem anxious to make they progress here as measure as possible .
Basra will fall .
but there may first be fight in the capital , 250 mile to the north .
Tim Ewart , ITV News , southern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF from the south to the north in the roll hill of northern Iraq , coalition air strike target iraqi position today in what be be call a ferocious bombardment .
it happen outside the oil-rich city of Kirkuk .
CNN 's Brent Sadler be there .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- BRENT SADLER , CNN CORRESPONDENT A back road lead to Kirkuk , the heartland of northern Iraq 's oil wealth .
a road that be now in the hand of iraqi kurdish force .
occupy these position , strattle along a crescent-shaped front line east of Kirkuk .
this land fall into iraqi-kurdish hand without a shot be fire .
iraqi soldier flee these position in a hurry , under the onslaught of coalition bombing .
this be the end of the road for kurdish force man this remote checkpoint .
but with special permission , they let we through .
we be now between the line , a no man 's land of abandon iraqi bunker and a unnerving silence , break by the roar of warplane and the distant surge of air strike .
this territory be within easy artillery range of Saddam Hussein 's force and circle Kirkuk .
the oil capital of northern Iraq be visible behind I , just over there , a harmless flare of burn gas be easily identifiable .
Iraq 's precious oil field remain intact .
also intact , Kirkuk 's defens , in the distant haze .
Iraq 's armed opposition , include these Kurds , wait on the sideline to join the fray , if America ask .
prime minister BARHAM SALEH , KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOV. this be about freedom for Iraq .
this be about the liberation of Iraq , and we Iraqis must shoulder the responsibility of help in the process of liberation .
SADLER and , say the iraqi opposition , in win this war .
Brent Sadler , CNN , near Kirkuk in northern Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
-lrb- newsbreak -rrb- woodruff with U.S. force roll closer and closer to Baghdad , the military seem to be zero in on the ground war .
but , as it have from the beginning , air power remain a important part of the battle .
let 's check in with CNN 's Gary Tuchman at a air base near Iraq .
Gary you have see it firsthand from the first moment .
GARY TUCHMAN , CNN CORRESPONDENT Well , that be right , Judy .
in two week after the air war begin , there be no let-up and no effective response from the Iraqis .
accord to the Air Force , at any give time , there be more 200 coalition aircraft either over Iraq , fly to Iraq or fly from Iraq .
we come to you from a base near the iraqi border .
many pilot be fly these a-10 attack plane behind I .
they also fly f-16 .
there be also Marine fa-18 and Marine Heriers at this base .
we can tell you that a lot of pilot of this base be not fly to another base in Iraq .
it be a base that be take over by the coalition last week .
and we spend part of the day at that base .
and when you arrive there , you be greet in a sense by Saddam Hussein .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- TUCHMAN this be Talil , Iraq .
the Talil Air Base .
but the be no more Iraqis here , the coalition take over this base last week .
it be now a major staging point .
you know you be in Iraq when you drive down the road come into the base and see the portrait of Saddam Hussein .
what be happen be the military personnel who have arrive here have take out they marker and be write message on Saddam Hussein 's portrait .
you can see the main one here on the bottom and also here message like , we win , April 1 , 2003 .
want to give you a look .
there be a lot of security personnel here .
you can look over there and you can see the military vehicle .
these be Air Force Security force with they rifle patrolling the entrance .
there be a lot of fight in this area .
we be near the town of Nasiriya .
but this base now be consider secure enough to make it a major staging point for the coalition .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- tuchman a short time ago we talk to a pilot at this base who have be to that iraqi base and he too say he have sign that mural right on Saddam Hussein 's sash .
after he tell we that , we ask he during he mission , and he be fly about 30 in the last two week , we ask he do he still have any artillery be fire at he ?
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- UNIDENTIFIED MALE yesterday I be up just south of Baghdad by 30 mile and we be fight sa-2 and sa-6 and aaa on the ground .
so they be still out there .
but the air power and the air package that we take to the fight , we continue to be effective .
and we attrit the Medina force down to less than 50 percent .
and when we put we power punch to they and then the Army and the Marines move forward it be a very effective , coordinate effort .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- TUCHMAN Lieutenant Colonel Webb -lrb- ph -rrb- be tell we he have a mission this very evening .
we want to tell you the Air Force have just inform we that between this morning and tomorrow morning , it will fly 1,900 sortie into Iraq .
a total over the last two week now of close to 24,000 sortie .
before we go , one more thing we want to tell you about , superstition .
military people be very superstitious , like many of we be .
here at this particular base they get they mre , they mre be they meal ready to eat .
they come in a bag .
and when you get a mre you get you meal and you get a little treat with it .
what a lot of people here at this base do , when they treat happen to be this one , this be the candy call charm , many of the people refuse to eat they charm .
they consider it a good luck charm to keep they charm in they clothes and not to eat they .
so one little superstitious tale for you , Judy .
back to you .
WOODRUFF Well , I be one of those who think that we need to pay attention to we superstition .
Gary , one another quick question for you .
that air base that coalition force have now take control of near Nasiriya .
be you able to say , be they actually use it or get much use out of it ?
TUCHMAN what they be do , Judy , some of these a-10 behind I go there to refuel , to stage operation further north .
they also fly these hh-60 helicopter , they be the search and rescue helicopter use in case they have to search and find somebody on the ground .
they stage there and refuel .
but right now , none of they be permanently base there , although the plan be for that to eventually happen .
WOODRUFF All right , Gary Tuchman with some charm .
you see he hold it .
I will be talk with a ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , Senator Joe Biden , just ahead , for he take on how the war be go .
could Tony Blair be in line for a gold medal ?
tale of how some in Congress want to honor the british prime minister .
WOLF BLITZER , CNN ANCHOR thanks very much , Judy .
with the power out now in Baghdad , we be get word that loudspeaker have be blare in the iraqi capital , urge citizen to go to the international airport there , presumably to defend it against coalition force .
now that armored column of u.s.-led troops have reach the outskirts of Baghdad , eyewitness report fight and shell around Saddam Hussein International Airport .
in the final push to Baghdad , U.S. force face limited resistance from iraqi troops .
but the Pentagon believe some iraqi Republican Guard unit have withdraw to the capital for what could be they last stand .
farther south in Basra , smoke rise over the city as coalition vehicle move in today .
british force say they be consolidate they position in Basra 's key suburb .
and in northern Iraq , kurdish political leader and member of the iraqi opposition be engage in talk with U.S. military commander .
they reportedly be explore the option of join force against Saddam Hussein .
Coalition force launch they latest advance toward Baghdad in the pre-dawn hour today , head toward the iraqi capital from the southeast and the southwest .
the force encounter limited resistance along the way and be now poise for the final assault not far from the edge of the city .
reporter Carl Dinnon of Britain 's ITN file this report .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- CARL DINNON , ITN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- Baghdad be now within striking distance as troops make they final thrust through the desert .
wreck armor by the side of the road suggest there have be some iraqi opposition .
but by and large , the Republican Guard have either be destroy or have withdraw .
and the way seem to be open for coalition force to close in on the city 's southern limit .
at daybreak , U.S. troops push through the outskirts of Karbala on the road to Baghdad , capture a key bridge on the Euphrates River .
meanwhile , coalition commander post american special force be now operate at will .
these dramatic picture show a raid on a presidential palace less than 60 mile from Baghdad .
it seem to have be abandon , but the United States say it be still on the trail of Saddam and he closest circle .
BRIG. GEN. VINCENT BROOKS , U.S. CENTRAL COMMAND we remain cautiously optimistic .
we do not think that the fighting be over yet , and so there be still option available to the regime , include the use of weapon of mass destruction .
we take that very seriously .
we take it in a sober fashion .
and at the same time , we remain prepared to continue operation .
DINNON The Americans say they have destroy two division of the elite Republican Guard .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : the Medina division , which be one of the toughest outfits in the Republican Guard be now down to 10 percent of its fight strength .
that mean it be practically inoperative .
other be down to 50 percent , but there be still one or two division around 75 , 80 , 90 percent of they fight strength , and they could still put up very stiff resistance , indeed , when the american force get en masse to Baghdad itself .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : the noose appear to be tighten on Saddam Hussein .
the question be , how desperate he will get before he be finally topple .
Carl Dinnon , ITV News , Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- blitzer in the southern city of Najaf , home to one of Islam 's holiest site , moment of tension that could have go either way earlier today .
arm coalition soldier move toward a venerated mosque at the behest of a muslim cleric .
Angry local who do not understand they intention clearly show they intention as well .
CNN 's Ryan Chilcote be in Najaf .
we be go to get to he shortly .
but Judy Woodruff , back in Washington , have break news -- Judy .
WOODRUFF Wolf , we be go to break in here , because the parent of Jessica Lynch , who live in Palestine , West Virginia , be before the microphone , I be tell , just about to talk with reporter .
they be walk toward the press .
let 's listen .
GREG LYNCH SR. , JESSICA LYNCH 's FATHER Good afternoon .
we appreciate y' all come out for what you be do for Jessie and all of the other troops that be miss .
we have be wait all day word from the doctor , and they have successively do one surgery on she .
there will be other surgery to do that .
it be go to take time and patience .
DEE LYNCH , JESSICA 's MOTHER but she be great and she be do good .
G. LYNCH she be in real good spirit .
we talk to she .
D. LYNCH we talk to she before the surgery , we talk to she after the surgery , and she be do good .
ca not you think ?
G. LYNCH Yes , a bunch , but my mind 's blank .
the doctor have complete one surgery on she back .
they have release the pressure on a nerve , and realign all the disk and put plate and stuff in it , and that be because she do not have any feeling in she foot .
so he , he be pretty sure right now that that will relieve , relieve the tension , and she foot will be able to move .
also , we have hear and see report that she have multiple gunshot wound , and knife stab .
the doctor have not see any of this .
he look for the gunshot wound for the knife stab , and there be no injury whatsoever .
they will do surgery again tomorrow on she leg .
she have fracture leg and she right forearm .
and we be just wait to get that good news too .
D. LYNCH we talk to she before and after the surgery , like I say , and she be just , she just sound real good .
of course , this morning she be a little groggy .
but yet , she be good , because it be early .
and then this afternoon , after the surgery , she be we Jessie again .
question if those be not gunshot wound to cause the broken bone , do they know what cause the fracture ?
G. LYNCH they have no idea at this time what cause they .
we know she be in good spirit , because they tell she they be gon na put pink cast on she leg and arm , and she have pink cast when she be in the third grade on she arm so we know she -- she mind be work good .
so she be in good spirit , and we hope the surgery will go good tomorrow , just as well as it do today .
question can you tell we what she say to you on the telephone ?
you say she be in good spirit ?
can you describe you conversation ?
G. LYNCH I tease she again about the Army jeep and she say , `` I know where there be a bunch of that we can find . ''
so , we know she be in good spirit .
D. LYNCH she be ask for a hairbrush .
WOODRUFF Gregory Lynch , the father of Jessica Lynch , and Jessica 's mother talk to reporter , say they have talk to she today , both before and after surgery , that she say she be feel good .
they say she will be good .
but they say the doctor do go in and apparently do some work on she spinal cord or spinal column .
he say to relieve some pressure on a nerve .
they be concern because she do not have feeling in she foot .
they do go on to say the doctor could not find either bullet or knife entry wound , suggest that she broken bone come from some other source , and it be not clear yet .
she parent say they do not know yet what cause they daughter 's injury .
WOODRUFF back now to the battlefront and to the southern city of Najaf , home to one of Islam 's holiest site , moment of tension that could have go either way today .
arm coalition soldier move toward a venerated mosque at the request of a muslim cleric , but angry local who do not understand what they be try to do .
CNN 's Ryan Chilcote be in Najaf with the 101st Airborne .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- RYAN CHILCOTE , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- a tip lead the Bastogne brigade 's no slack batallion to this parking lot in Najaf where the Fedayeen be say to have stash weapon .
the search turn up nothing .
the only resistance come from a Volvo .
the shia population seem curious and friendly but they do not get too close .
this man agree to be interview as long as he face be not show .
the iraqi government , he say , have satellite tv .
anybody could be a informer and punish we for talk to you , even my family , he tell I in Arabic .
the troops also keep they distance .
unidentified male yes , it be very uneasy out here .
do not know who be who .
CHILCOTE Sergeant Rod Sutton from Indiana on the corner of a street lead to the highly sensitive Imam Ali Shrine , one of the holiest site in the world for shia Muslims .
do it make you nervous that you be so close to the Ali mosque ?
do you feel like you be tramp on .
SGT. ROD SUTTON , BASTOGNE BRIGADE Holy ground ?
CHILCOTE Yes .
SUTTON to some extent , I feel fortunate that I be here , because this be something I never would have see before .
and now that I see it I kind of understand some of the history behind it .
so , it make I more appreciative of it .
to the same extent , I do not want to be invasive with these people here .
I do not want to trample on they holy ground , and I want to respect that as much as I can .
CHILCOTE word come from the grand Ayatollah Sistani that he be willing to meet the american commander , but he ask first for soldier to secure he compound , located halfway down the road to the mosque .
no one explain that to the crowd .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : there be no more striking example of the sensitivity that the U.S. soldier face here than what be take place on the street right up from the ah Ali mosque right now .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : chaos as the crowd apparently believe the soldier want to approach the shrine .
unidentified MALE they want to get inside the holy shrine of Imam Ali .
CHILCOTE Clerics appear with a message from the grand Ayatollah , but the message be do drown out .
the colonel instruct he man to stay calm .
unidentified MALE they get to understand , he want we here .
smile , relax .
CHILCOTE he soldier take a knee , they weapon bring down from the ready position .
they do everything soldier can to appear less hostile .
but the potential for confrontation remain .
the commander make the decision .
unidentified male turn around , just turn around and go .
CHILCOTE he order he man back to they compound to await cooler head .
Ryan Chilcote , CNN with the 101st Airborne in Najaf , Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF and CNN 's Nic Robertson tell we earlier , significant that the shia muslim ayatollah , what they do , that they be cooperate with coalition and U.S. troops , say that that will send a important signal to shia Muslims throughout the country .
well , U.S. official be investigate two possible friendly fire incident in which coalition force may have mistakenly shoot at ally aircraft .
in one of the incident , a soldier be kill and several other wound .
before word of that death , 40 Americans have be kill by hostile fire in Operation iraqi freedom .
eleven of they by friendly fire or in other accident .
most of the 27 british troops kill have be victim of friendly fire or accident .
meantime , Iraq say that 420 civilian , they say , have be kill during the war .
and they say 4,000 injure .
U.S. official say more than 4,000 Iraqis have be capture .
seven Americans we know remain prisoner of war in Iraq .
fifteen other be say to be still miss in action .
well , when they do finally enter Baghdad , U.S. and coalition troops could face urban combat with the Republican Guard , some of whom may have withdraw into the city .
but the U.S. military be expect to remain focused on specific target in the iraqi capital .
nevertheless , CNN 's Miles O'Brien be with we military analyst , Lieutenant Colonel Robert Leonard , he be a Persian Gulf War veteran and a military science professor at West Virginia University -- Miles .
mile o'brien , CNN CORRESPONDENT thanks very much , Judy .
and Colonel Leonhard , we be go to talk a little bit about urban combat .
and I want to just start this off by say a lot of people when they hear about urban combat , they think of that Blackhawk down scenario , Mogadishu and the problem that can go wrong here .
this be not probably a comparable situation , be it ?
LT. COL. ROBERT LEONHARD , U.S. army -lrb- ret . -rrb-
not in any way .
and one of the reason be because we have armored fight vehicle there in Baghdad , and we will use they .
those tank have 120-millimeter smoothbore gun on they .
the Bradleys have 25-millimetre chain gun and coaxial machine gun .
that be a lot of mobile protective gunfire .
completely different from the Mogadishu situation in which we do not have such vehicle .
and we also be not go to use similar tactic there .
we be much more likely to use patience and finesse rather than assault tactic .
O'BRIEN All right .
we want to show you a animation , and share with we viewer , maybe you can point out a few thing about this .
if we move in on Baghdad , and give you a sense of the kind of target that might be encounter in urban combat .
what we have depict here be something here which show some armor sort of off the wing here , right over here be a mosque .
we depict that to show that be something you obviously want to stay clear as we just see with the Ryan Chilcote piece from Najaf .
as we get a little bit closer here , in a typical scenario like this , you might very well have Republican Guard sniper up on balcony like this , and possibly up on the roof of building and anti-aircraft artillery or artillery encampment like that .
what we have present she be a armored column with air support come in .
how much jeopardy be a column like this in as it go through these concrete canyon in a city ?
LEONHARD it be a great question .
I think the animation be good because it do show that you can hide literally anywhere in a city environment , and that be why movement through a urban area be very , very dangerous .
it be the side that be move that be go to take the casualty .
that say , the armored fighting vehicle that you see there they look to I as if they be move a little bit faster as than we probably will .
we will use patience and finesse .
we will take the time to locate the enemy , surround the block and the building that he be in .
and then we will probably surge fire into they both lethal and nonlethal to make he position untenable , to make he move rather than we move through the assault zone .
at which time we can engage they or arrest they .
O'BRIEN we would like to resume with that animation if we could .
that be Saddam International Airport .
that be another segment .
can we get back to the animation .
and I would like to just finish this out .
here we go .
ad we move it along , you will see eventually the troops will come march in .
in this case , slightly off target here because you see they all go in the front door .
typically , when they would assault a target like this , they would do what ?
LEONHARD Well , typically , if they do go in , which be generally the option of last resort , but if we do have to go in , often we will try to go in from the top of the build down .
one of the reason be because we use grenade a lot in clear building , and grenade ten to offend downhill rather than uphill .
so , you always want they go down staircase rather than have to try to throw they up the staircase .
O'BRIEN Interesting , all right .
gravity rule , even in urban combat .
lieutenant Colonel Robert Leonard , we appreciate you insight in urban combat , something that be not something that the U.S. military would prefer to engage in , but it might become inevitable .
thank you very much for you time .
we appreciate it -- Judy .
WOODRUFF thank you , Miles and thank you Colonel Leonhard .
all of that certainly help we visualize what might happen .
President Bush vow a final push to victory and he mourn the loss of fall Marines .
up next , a report on the president 's trip to Camp Lejeune , and a look at how the Camp Lejeune community be cope with the challenge of war .
BLITZER New explosion rock Baghdad after dark .
witness say they hear blast around a presidential complex in the center of the city .
meantime , the U.S. reportedly have hundred of troops poise to reinforce the Baghdad international airport , now under the control of american troops .
a source tell CNN 's Nic Robertson , some iraqi Republican Guard force be gather close to the airport .
column of coalition force keep press north and tighten the noose on Baghdad .
CNN 's Central command say some 2,500 Republican Guard force surrender , that be , between Kut and Baghdad .
now , the latest on the fight for control of Baghdad 's International Airport .
while coalition force say they have secure the facility , that be not the case in the surround area .
ITN reporter James Mates be with the U.S. force when they move in to secure the airport .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- JAMES MATES , ITN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- it be a showpiece of he regime .
now Saddam International Airport be control by coalition troops and , tonight , it have a new name , Baghdad International .
these picture be take on the runway just moment after the coalition attack .
a passenger jet burn out on the tarmac .
wreckage burning in a hangar as U.S. troops rush in .
at dawn this morning , U.S. tank and infantry have roll in to claim they biggest prize of the war so far .
building by building , they sweep the terminal complex , then move on to secure the runway .
the fall of he airport be a humiliating blow for Saddam .
it lie just 12 mile from Baghdad and will be a key forward base for U.S. troops as they prepare for a push on the capital .
more than 300 iraqi soldier have be leave dead .
some Republican Guard troops fight fiercely on the northern side of the airport complex .
unidentified male hopefully , this be a sign that we be able to send to the resident of Baghdad that we be here and they can rise up and deal with the regime appropriately .
mate outside the airport , the fighting be fierce , but the battle unequal .
here , the remains of a iraqi armored car , and by its side the body of a iraqi soldier , all that remain of a column that push up the airport road last night in a final effort to defend the airport .
U.S. troops be now knock on the door of Baghdad .
but the final push into the city could yet prove to be the toughest fighting of all .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : the patchy , somewhat disorganized defense of the airport last night have leave coalition commander with several question .
have they do so much damage now to iraqi command and control center that they can no longer put up a proper fight , or be the best troops simply withdraw into the city , to fight there street by street ?
the answer to that could well decide how quickly they make a final push into the city .
James Mates , ITV News , with the U.S. marine , south of Baghdad .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
BLITZER attack on the ground and call in air strike , kurdish fighter and U.S. troops have dislodge stubborn iraqi soldier at a key bridge in northern Iraq .
Iraqis pull back on the road to Mosul as CNN 's Jane Arraf report from the battlefield .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- JANE ARRAF , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- a few mile further to Mosul , kurdish militia and they flag speed to a town abandon by iraqi force .
after a day of fighting , the Iraqis be drive back five kilometer , about three mile down the main road west towards Mosul from the kurdish city of Erbil .
soldier be kurdish , but the special force call in air strike on iraqi position be american .
as U.S. warplane drop bomb near the town , kurdish fighter move forward .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : there be a slow-and-steady battle go on here for control of the key bridge .
it be a bridge over the river on the main road to Mosul .
the Iraqis be firing artillery like that in response to the Americans be call in air strike .
the Peshmerga be just down the road , and the Iraqis have retreat , but they be still hold on to the bridge .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : that blast turn out to be a rocket-propelled grenade , but there be plenty of artillery and mortar fire to come .
unidentified MALE be you come here ?
ARRAF less than 20 minute later , with iraqi defens pound by the bombing , they no longer hold the bridge over the Khoser River .
in this vehicle , the only iraqi casualty we see .
they military radio and gun indicate they be combatant .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : it be still smolder , this truck with three iraqi soldier .
it be either shell or bomb .
now , it be a small part of this battle for the bridge just behind we .
these be lie on the ground next to the truck .
somebody pick they up .
it be a I.D. card , presumably for one of the soldier .
the only thing you can really tell from it be that he be 27 year old .
and a snapshot from when he life be still ahead of he .
other evidence of a hurry retreat amid the smolder vehicle , a discard gas mask .
military document .
notebook with verse from the Koran .
kurdish fighter plant they flag and leave it wave in the smoke of the bombed-out iraqi truck .
the village of manguba -lrb- ph -rrb- , just 32 kilometer , about 23 mile from Mosul be now in kurdish hand .
one kurdish soldier do the honor of tear up a poster of Saddam Hussein .
not just the poster , but the frame and cardboard backing as well .
they have be wait a long time .
Jane Arraf , CNN , on the bridge over the Khoser River in northern Iraq .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- BLITZER thanks very much .
Judy , dangerous assignment for all of we reporter , we embedded journalist .
and one of they , not from we CNN , but from a very close friend of all of ours , Michael Kelly , pay that price .
the first american embedded journalist to have get kill in cover this war .
we will have more on he at 5:00 on we special edition of `` WOLF BLITZER report . ''
until then , thanks , Judy , back to you .
WOODRUFF thanks , Wolf .
and we will be watch .
Michael Kelly , of course , with `` Atlantic monthly , '' and a columnist for the `` Washington Post . ''
well , at least three U.S. service member be kill today in a apparent suicide bomb attack at a checkpoint near the Haditah dam northwest of Baghdad .
those death be not yet include in the official casualty count .
at last report , though , 41 Americans have be kill by hostile force , 13 other by friendly fire or in accident .
of the 27 british troops , in all who have be kill , at least 19 of they be say to be victim of friendly fire or accident .
the official iraqi casualty figure remain the same this day , include more than 400 civilian kill , iraqi authority say .
and U.S. Central command say more than 4,000 Iraqis have be capture , but british official believe that figure be much higher .
we know that seven american be know to be hold as prisoner of war in Iraq .
another 15 Americans list as miss in action .
well , funeral service be hold today in Colorado for 21-year - old Marine corporal Randall Kent Rosacker .
he be kill in action in Iraq .
he story be especially poignant .
he father be a navy commander .
he receive word of he son 's death within hour after the submarine that he be assign to return home from a extended deployment .
the Iraqis promise a unconventional attack on U.S. troops tonight .
do they mean guerilla warfare , as in Vietnam ?
we be go to ask we military analyst .
that be come up .
WOODRUFF thanks , Wolf .
and we will see you then .
well , as coalition force push ahead in they bid to capture Baghdad , big question remain about Saddam Hussein and he whereabouts .
it be still not clear , look at the latest tape of the iraqi president , whether he be dead or alive .
CNN senior international correspondent Nic Robertson , who be expel from Baghdad , be with we now from the border of Iraq and Jordan , on the jordanian side , to talk about what be happen in the iraqi capital .
nic , we be get information in bit and piece about the incursion by coalition land force , about air flight over the city .
help we pull it all together .
NIC ROBERTSON , CNN senior INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT Well , from what we hear from source in Baghdad this evening , it have be mostly quiet in term of bombing throughout the day in Baghdad .
then there be a large explosion not far from the hotel journalist be stay in in the center of Baghdad .
along the riverfront there , there be a number of Ba'ath Party house and building that appear to be -- have some sort of military function .
it be not clear exactly what the target be .
what we be hear from iraqi people in the capital today be that they know and they have see coalition force in the southwest of the city , in the southeast of the city .
they say they have also see coalition force and believe coalition force have a checkpoint on the northern outskirts of Baghdad as well .
so as far as the iraqi people be concern , they be very aware that coalition force be right on the perimeter of the city .
we source be also tell we that iraqi force be mass artillery piece and tank at a number of location on the southwestern edge of the city .
these location , actually , very close to the center of Baghdad and appear to be form something sort of front line against the coalition force .
now , Iraq 's minister of information today say that the coalition do not have control of the airport , that this be some sort of contrived video from the first day , and that , in fact , hundred of coalition soldier have be kill , and they grave be now at the airport .
he do promise to take journalist to the airport , however , he never make -- he do not make good on that promise throughout the day .
the information minister also read a statement from President Saddam Hussein today , the iraqi leader call on people to be resolute , to be strong , and say that if they put up a good fight , then the coalition would eventually back down .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- MOHAMMED SAEED AL-SAHAF , IRAQI INFORMATION MINISTER -lrb- through translator -rrb- but to harm the enemy more and more , go against the enemy and destroy the enemy and follow the plan that you get in write .
God be great .
May the criminal lose .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- ROBERTSON now , representative of the committee -- the International Committee for the Red Cross , who have be to some of the hospital in Baghdad , report higher-than-usual number of casualty come into those hospital .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- ROLAND NUGUENIN-BENJAMIN , INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE of the RED CROSS -lrb- on phone -rrb- we have a chance in the morning to go to the main hospital , which be call Yarmuk -lrb- ph -rrb- , and we find there have be a steady flow in of hundred of casualty , all over the night and through into the day , casualty -- I mean , war wound have to be send over , dispatch to other hospital , because this yarmuk be just totally overwhelm by the sheer number of people come in .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- ROBERTSON now , these Red Cross representative say that most -- that two-third of the casualty they have see in this particular hospital be , in fact , military casualty .
and iraqi official promise to take journalist to this particular hospital , the Yarmuk Hospital , that be now located , it be on the southwest of Baghdad , and it appear to be pretty much between the position of where coalition force have be see and where Iraq now have a militarized front-line position .
now , when journalist be take to see that hospital , twice they be turn around and tell that they be not actually allow to go inside that hospital , Judy .
WOODRUFF Nic , when you say Iraqis be see now put artillery piece out and around the city , be you say out in the open , where they can -- where they be vulnerable , or be they make any attempt to hide they ?
give we clearer picture of that .
ROBERTSON one of the area where I understand they be locate tank and artillery piece be the Zawara -lrb- ph -rrb- park .
this be fairly central in Baghdad on the edge of a government area .
it be a garden -- it be a large garden-type area for people to take they child to go and play .
it be -- there be a small zoo there as well .
it be , if you will , on the -- face towards the southwestern area of the city .
it face off against the highway that lead out to the airport .
now , that be not in a residential area .
it be a clear , open area , apart from tree .
the other area that we understand where iraqi official be place tank and block off street be in more residential area , Judy .
WOODRUFF All right .
Nic Robertson , give we a better understanding of exactly what the Iraqis be do to prepare for any further move by coalition force .
nic , thank you very much .
well , as american force do push ahead toward the iraqi government 's key center of power , british force be keep up they work to the south of the iraqi capital .
ITN reporter Juliet Bremner be embed with british force in Iraq 's second-largest city , Basra , where the fight for control go on .
JULIET BREMNER , ITV news -lrb- voice-over -rrb- dominate the city gate to Basra .
Saddam Hussein and he henchman still claim to control this southern port .
but the british want to send a powerful symbolic message .
soldier be here to tear down the regime and all it stand for .
by the time they leave Iraq , they be determine Saddam and he Ba'ath Party will have bite the dust .
the approach can seem frustratingly slow , but day by day , the Desert Rats be exert more control .
checkpoint mean to filter out iraqi hardliner .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : they be well within striking distance of the mortar and rocket of the Fedayeen militia , but they be prepare to take that risk to try and persuade the people of Basra that they will not desert they , that they will stick with this however messy it get .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : drastic action be need to convince a dubious population .
unidentified MALE get down , get down !
BREMNER we watch a nighttime raid on the home of Ba'ath Party official and Fedayeen militia .
these be man single out by local and believe by army intelligence to be behind much of the brutality and corruption .
most be not accuse of specific crime but suspect of be part of the state-sponsored climate of fear .
unidentified male -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- , get up !
BREMNER the party 's influence extend to every corner of iraqi society .
in two small community , we witness more than 70 people be round up .
some be clearly terrify of what lie ahead , uncertain of they fate , overcome by nerve .
but as it end , there be no british apology for the scale of the operation .
unidentified male we come in firm , we come in fair .
there be no shot fire .
we give a good warning before we come in .
we have be play warning to people to stay in they house , and we have only lift those people we have get very good intelligence on .
BREMNER this be not a tactic that can be regularly repeat , or the british risk be accuse of install they own rule of terror .
despite the discomfort of a few , there be a conviction that this be a night 's work that will benefit the majority .
Juliet Bremner in Basra .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF Well , there have be a terrible discovery by some other british troops in southern Iraq .
up next , evidence at a makeshift morgue point to mass execution by the iraqi regime .
but first , more scene from today 's fighting in Baghdad .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- mile o'brien , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- seven-eleven a.m. Eastern , 4:11 p.m. in Iraq .
at its daily briefing , U.S. Central command say Operation iraqi freedom be far from finish in Baghdad , even though U.S. force be inside the iraqi capital .
eight-fifteen a.m. Iraq 's information minister read a message he say be from Saddam Hussein urge Iraqis to step up attack against coalition force .
eight-thirty-six a.m. Walter Rodgers report accord to Army source , iraqi official be flee Baghdad in drove , use civilian convoy top avoid be target by coalition air strike .
eight-forty-three a.m. CNN Pentagon correspondent Barbara Starr report coalition troops enter Baghdad be meet with fierce fighting , and there be casualty on both side .
nine-oh-six a.m. CNN 's Martin Savidge , embed with the 1st battalion , 7th Marines , report the unit have reach the extreme southeast suburb of Baghdad , add to force the U.S. say now encircle the city .
twelve-thirteen p.m. .
at the Pentagon , Barbara Starr report official say today begin a new strategy in the sky over Baghdad .
the coalition air force will begin provide urban combat air support over the city .
now the operate plan include both ground and air mission .
twelve-twenty-one p.m. CNN 's Wolf Blitzer report accord to a eyewitness , a bomb have hit central Baghdad only a few hundred meter from the Palestine Hotel .
the Palestine Hotel be where much of the international press corps be base .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
WOODRUFF Well , U.S. force enter Baghdad do face the prospect of urban combat , a type of battle they have train for , but , of course , they would prefer to avoid .
for more now on the unique challenge pose by urban combat , let 's go back to Atlanta and join the man whose voice we just hear , Miles O'Brien .
hello again , Miles .
O'BRIEN hello again , Judy .
I be join by J. Kelly McCann , we security analyst , a man who be spend a lot of time learn about urban combat .
you know , just those two word together , I think , scare a lot of people because of all the thing that can go wrong .
you know , I be impressed , look at this map , it almost look like a chess game , kind of sterile .
that be -- could not be further from the truth , could it ?
J. KELLY MCCANN , CNN SECURITY ANALYST absolutely not .
this be very clean and it be very orderly .
suddenly when we show the videotape and we start to go there , you will see just how conflict a environment that be .
O'BRIEN and all happen so quickly .
MCCANN -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- .
O'BRIEN Let 's roll some tape .
we be go to kind of play it and stop it , and Kelly 's go to walk we through , I guess , Urban Combat 101 .
what be we see here ?
MCCANN just there , I mean , just get the door out of the way , you can see where the weapon have to go .
now , you just see this soldier right here , he be go to he sidearm to make a little bit more mobile .
and he be get to be careful of he muzzle point at he partner right here .
now , he be go to go that direction , because that room be clear .
go ahead and stop the tape.as you make every entry , Miles , there be two dead spot , one , of course , in this direction right here , which you can not see from the doorway , the other in this direction right here , and that be always the problem , because as you come in here , you have get to be able to get in there quickly and make sure that this person here do not get shoot in the back .
so ... O'BRIEN All right .
now , what about this , this armor ?
tell we how they be equip with armor there .
MCCANN Level 4 armor , this be not just for frag .
this will also stop bullet .
and there be a difference .
the normal flak jacket will stop fragment from grenade , et cetera .
this be a plate that will actually stop and deform a bullet .
O'BRIEN All right .
let 's roll tape and continue on here and talk about -- now , I notice he hand -- he sidearm be attach to he .
that be for ... MCCANN exactly ... O'BRIEN ... -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- ... MCCANN ... -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- retention , for retention capability .
so he go down the hallway , and you can see once that be call clear , straight trigger finger , in case there be any sympathetic muscle tightening , there be no problem .
you will see another person come right up here , and he will hold on this door , because that be not be clear space yet , again , straight trigger finger , but ready to shoot if he need to .
O'BRIEN Sort of ready but not quite -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- .
MCCANN absolutely .
O'BRIEN -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- .
MCCANN immediately make entry with the thing , and then pying -lrb- ph -rrb- the room out , get angle of vision as they clear it .
but look at that , a dark space from a light space .
who know what be in the recess ?
O'BRIEN All right .
let 's roll that second tape quickly , and we will show you a couple more tip from Kelly 's perspective .
so far , what we be see be pretty much textbook .
MCCANN absolutely .
-lrb- unintelligible -rrb- ... O'BRIEN All right .
now , this be a rural setting , but this could be apply to urban combat , yes .
MCCANN very different circumstance .
same thing when you come into a building .
but stop the tape right here ... O'BRIEN Oop , we miss it , we miss it ... MCCANN ... if you would , -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- -- it be all right .
you can see all this area ... O'BRIEN No , just roll it .
MCCANN ... out here .
just go ahead and roll it .
all of that have to be account for as well , not just the space in here .
you back be not cover .
many angle you have get to watch for .
now , you see right here , he be get a sidearm , he be call the team in .
all the rear be -- now , stop the tape .
O'BRIEN Yes , -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- .
MCCANN imagine a person that be conceal anywhere in here .
I mean , you could have anyone with a rifle back in these area here ... O'BRIEN up in this area here , here ... MCCANN ... in any of these recess back over here .
O'BRIEN Oop .
MCCANN I mean , you know , you be look at -- he would not have a bomb -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- ... O'BRIEN No , he would not have that .
but let I ask you this .
also that the garb , -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- there be a cultural issue here .
that provide a lot of cover for weapon if need be , right ?
MCCANN absolutely .
and someone might say , well , why put they hand on they head like this ?
because , you know , you -- the hand hurt .
and I will not be able to determine what you be do with you face .
where be you hand and what do they hold ?
O'BRIEN All right .
let 's roll it real quickly and we will make a few more point , if we could .
a lot of fear in they face here .
you see , by the way , they all have radio , I notice they have , like , a little headset there .
that allow they to communicate -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- ... MCCANN Immediate communication , absolutely .
you see they have they sector of fire .
all these area up in here , you know , could be subject to people hide , et cetera .
now you have get people come down that have already be clear .
look at the fear on the face .
they do not understand what be go on .
O'BRIEN and you want to keep they calm , and ... MCCANN very calm , reassure they that this be not about they .
O'BRIEN wow .
MCCANN now , here be a little bit more aggressive stance .
exactly .
go ahead and stop tape ... O'BRIEN stop it right there .
oh , we miss it again .
MCCANN ... if you can .
obviously , that person be do something that that soldier do not appreciate .
O'BRIEN I would say aggressive be a good word for that ... MCCANN absolutely .
O'BRIEN ... the business end of that m-16 .
all right , Kelly McCann , thank you for some insight .
and that -- compound that by a city of 5 million , it kind of boggle the mind and really give you a sense of what lie head for U.S. and coalition force .
thanks very much for you insight .
MCCANN Pleasure , Miles .
O'BRIEN Judy .
WOODRUFF thanks , Miles and Kelly .
I have always wonder what happen -- who cover the last man or woman in one of those operation , but that be something for you next conversation .
WOODRUFF thanks very much .
a investigation be under way at a makeshift morgue in southern Iraq after a gruesome discovery by some british troops .
Tim Ewart of ITN News report on evidence of atrocity at a abandon iraqi military base .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- TIM EWART , ITV news -lrb- voice-over -rrb- it be a discovery that horrify the soldier who make it .
the remains of hundred of man be find in plastic bag and unsealed hard-board coffin .
british troops find the body at a abandon iraqi military base on the outskirts of Azubayr .
the evidence suggest it be the scene of appalling atrocity .
the tooth in many of the skull have be break , and bone appear to be wrap in strip of military uniform .
it be not clear how long the body have lie here , but they be clearly not from this war .
unidentified MALE you come to expect everything in war fighting .
the coffin be there .
it be a bit more of a surprise when I discover the bag with the human remain inside .
EWART inside a neighbor building , there be evidence of cell and a catalog of photograph of the dead .
most have die from gunshot wound to the head .
other be mutilate beyond recognition , they face burn and swollen .
outside , soldier discover what they describe as a purpose - build shooting gallery , the brickwork behind it riddled with bullet .
identity card reveal the name of some of the dead .
forensic specialist will now visit the scene and hope to establish the truth of what happen here and when .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : today 's discovery seem to provide shocking evidence of atrocity under Saddam Hussein 's regime .
most people be afraid to talk openly about what be be happen here .
but when they do , british soldier believe , more horror will come to light .
Tim Ewart , ITV News , Azubayr .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF Well , from a gruesome finding to a dangerous one in central Iraq .
U.S. troops work to clear that area of iraqi weapon , come up .
WOODRUFF we have be hear about the situation in northern and southern Iraq .
now to central Iraq , where coalition force say they be now in charge .
and they be come across some major munitions find .
the cache be apparently abandon by retreat iraqi force .
one such cache turn up in the city of Karbala , a strategic military point about 60 mile to the south of Baghdad .
CNN 's Ryan Chilcote be embed with the 101st Airborne Division , and he have the story .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- RYAN CHILCOTE , CNN CORRESPONDENT can you show we what you have be find today ?
SGT. 1ST CLASS LARRY CLARK , U.S. ARMY Roger .
well , this be about the third cache we have find today .
we have be find they nonstop , and it be a really tedious affair .
I have get a assortment of weapon right here , range from ak-47 , to over here , behind they , you will see mortar sight , 60-millimeter and 81 .
off on the far left , you will see a second-generation starscope , kind of outdated , but still work .
if you keep shift over , you will see stabilizer fin for mortar round .
on the back here , you will see both 60 - and 82-millimeter mortar .
CHILCOTE these be well equip .
CLARK Well , they be very well equip .
definitely put up a fight .
rocket-propelled grenade .
be find a lot of these lately .
these could take out a jeep or a Humvee in a heartbeat .
CHILCOTE now , be this a -- you say you would see a lot of weapon cache recently find .
CLARK -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- .
CHILCOTE be this a large cache ?
CLARK No , I would say this be about a medium cache .
what ... CHILCOTE this look like a lot of weapon .
CLARK it look like a lot of weapon , but it be really not .
this -- technically , this would probably would outfit a platoon , a platoon of -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- .
CHILCOTE ok .
CLARK keep go on .
this be a little bit more advanced , these be 25-millimeter shell , and each one of those silver box you see behind they hold 50 of these shell .
that be a little bit above we .
that be actually go into mechanize and armor .
CHILCOTE All right .
and you be talk about the maker , where some of these weapon be come from , and you be express surprise to I .
CLARK Roger .
a majority of these be come from -- -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- on this box , but Jordan and France .
we have a very scatter , limit , and russian equipment , but like I say , France and Jordan be the main supplier right here .
CHILCOTE now for you guy , this be dangerous work , finding ... CLARK it be -- yes , it be extremely dangerous , because once you enter these building , we find , actually , enemy , you know , guard these site .
do not know if they be go to be booby trap .
do not know what -- what be go to be there .
so it be very tedious , it be -- get to be careful about it .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF Well , we have hear a whole lot about Iraq 's use of human shield in defend key site .
Coalition fighter , though , use a different kind of shield .
in a CNN exclusive , CNN 's Kyra Phillips offer we a ride-along over the city of Baghdad with some airborne bodyguard .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- unidentified male we will not consider the mission a success unless the Marines be happy with the product .
KYRA PHILLIPS , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- they be coalition bodyguard over Baghdad , a airborne shield to U.S. Marines .
unidentified MALE let they know what be come .
let they know if anything be come back behind they on they frank to close off the supply line .
PHILLIPS you be now airborne over Iraq with Commander Steve Kroto 's -lrb- ph -rrb- Gray Knights , the Navy 's p-3 eye in the sky .
unidentified MALE any kind of force that look like they may be threaten the Marines , you know , we want to let they know .
and we have the capability to send picture or actual video , and then they can make -lrb- unintelligible -rrb- if they want to maybe avoid that area or go ahead and go out and engage those folk .
PHILLIPS Dodging missile and triple-a fire be something new to this squadron .
however , protect force on the ground be not .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : these man be about three hour into they mission , and the sun be start to set .
they have just come across one of the Marine convoy that they need to track , so they be watch every move that the Marines make as they move towards Baghdad , make sure they do not come across any type of threat .
unidentified male we be get closer to it .
phillips -lrb- voice-over -rrb- also on this mission , Marine Colonel Jim Lukeman -lrb- ph -rrb- and Sergeant Emilio Hernandez .
they be track and talk to they fellow Marines on the ground ... UNIDENTIFIED MALE two vehicle move across the bridge ... PHILLIPS ... make sure they do not get ambush .
unidentified male I be look for enemy position out to the front .
we will look at the route ahead of where we guy be go to go and try to see what enemy be there .
PHILLIPS Lukeman be warn he troops about a bridge ahead .
he do not like what he see .
the Gray Knights fly closer and grab a clearer picture .
unidentified MALE there be some vehicular traffic , so that we know the bridge be still intact .
they may be iraqi military .
so now that the Marine division on the ground have that information , they will take that action -- they will take action tactically on it .
PHILLIPS these flight can last up to 15 hour , but it be the minute of realtime intelligence that complete the mission .
unidentified MALE when you be on the ground fighting , every piece of information you have get about what you be come up against be golden .
PHILLIPS Commander Steve Kroto bring he crew home after locate enemy position and surface-to-surface missile .
unidentified male it keep the Marines safe .
and one more safe Marine be one more Marine that can continue on north to Baghdad .
PHILLIPS Flying over Iraq , Kyra Phillips , CNN .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF come up , we be go to go live to Fort Bliss , where the name of that base be a far cry from the mood there today , after confirmation that more of they own be kill on the battlefield .
WOODRUFF a apparent friendly fire incident in northern Iraq be take more of a toll on kurdish leader than we know at first .
eighteen people be now report dead .
and there be late report that the 45 wound include the brother and a son of a kurdish political leader .
Julian Manyon of ITN have more from northern Iraq .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- JULIAN MANYON , ITN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- it be another friendly fire disaster .
this morning , a american bomb destroy a convoy carry high official of the kurdish peshmerga force , which have be fight alongside the Americans on the northern front .
at least 17 kurdish commander and they guard be kill , along with a interpreter work for the BBC .
more than 40 be injure .
the military chief of the kurdish kdp , the brother of they leader , Massud Barzani -lrb- ph -rrb- , be gravely hurt .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : try to organize a northern front with just a few hundred U.S. special force troops and the poorly arm Kurdish Peshmerga guerrilla be always go to be a high-risk exercise .
the idea be to open the way with heavy sustained american bombing of iraqi position .
but today , it all go disastrously wrong .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : even as we film the wreckage , U.S. jet be still drop they bomb nearby .
giant explosion erupt down the road .
earlier , we have join another convoy of U.S. special force troops and kurdish fighter as they try to move south through country abandon by the iraqi army .
at first , all be calm .
american troops control the operation from a rooftop .
then , as the Kurds advance again , the Iraqis open up .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : now we be hear the boom of iraqi gun as they fire towards we position .
all morning , the Kurds have be try to advance , and that be the shell go off .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : the iraqi gunner rapidly find we range , and we take refuge in a abandon farm house .
unidentified MALE get down .
get down !
MANYON we finally manage to get out by car .
here in the north , iraqi tank and gun be still firing , and the american effort be look a little ragged .
Julian Manyon , ITV News , on the northern front .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF Julian Manyon with some very dramatic picture as we look at the live picture of Baghdad at night .
we will take a short break , we live coverage continue .
WOODRUFF Letter write , you know , be sometimes call a lost art in this age of electronic communication .
but it be be rediscover by U.S. troops in Iraq , at least some of they .
Karl Penhaul be with a Army attack helicopter battalion in the town of Najaf in southeastern Iraq .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- karl penhaul , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- war , soldier say , be long hour of boredom , follow by a few moment of madness .
away from the thick of the action , soldier ' mind turn to family , friend and lover .
no phone , no e-mail , letter be the only link to home .
Melony Marshall be marry just a month before she leave for Iraq .
PFC MELONY MARSHALL , U.S. ARMY `` Hi , sweetheart .
how you do ?
I have not receive mail in two day .
be out here in the heat , it be so exhausting .
my love for you grow stronger every day .
the tent , I have to come home to seven people that , they be not so bad half the time .
but , sometimes , you need time away from people .
I miss you more and more .
I be ready to come home .
when I get home , I do not want to see a camera .
I do not want to see a band .
I do not want to see a formation .
I just want to come home . ''
PENHAUL Attack pilot John Davis be feel sad he be miss see he child grow up .
CWO JOHN DAVIS , U.S. ARMY `` Dear Keegan -lrb- ph -rrb- , britney -lrb- ph -rrb- and Josh -lrb- ph -rrb- , I be do fine , as be the rest of the battalion .
I really miss you guy a lot .
and I can hardly wait for the day I can be with you again .
in hindsight , I look back and see plenty of opportunity which I could have use to be a better father , but yet let slip by .
it be unfortunate that it be take yet another separation from you for I to realize this .
perhaps I can do better when I get home . ''
PENHAUL Tiffany O'Neal , a military cook , vent she frustration about the rigor of desert warfare to a friend .
PFC TIFFANY O'NEAL , U.S. ARMY `` hey , Ashley -lrb- ph -rrb- , how you do ?
I , I be hot as hell out here .
for the last two night , we wake up to put we gas mask on for no reason .
we little section get the information last , or the best we can get .
I guess nobody care enough to inform the cook . ''
PENHAUL in he previous letter home , Apache pilot Joe Bruhl do not tell he family the full detail about he first combat mission .
now he be try to set the record straight .
1st lt. JOE BRUHL , U.S. ARMY `` in my previous letter , write less than two day remove , I only want to convey my safety .
we do receive heavy fire and many of we aircraft take significant hit , include mine .
I tell you all this not to worry you , but to give you comfort know what you hear and see be true and that , despite that , I be safe and will continue to be .
penhaul -lrb- on camera -rrb- different rank , different anxiety , but all be hope , by the time they letter get back to the U.S. , they too will soon be head home .
Karl Penhaul , for CNN , a Najaf , Iraq .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF very poignant .
and I bet that father be a better father than he give himself credit for be .
that be it for this special edition of INSIDE POLITICS .
I be Judy Woodruff .
WOODRUFF and , as we listen to John King 's report , we can tell you that President Bush have just -- he plane have just land at Andrews Air Force Base , just close to the Washington area , the president have fly back to the United States from that meeting in northern Ireland in Belfast with the british prime minister , Tony Blair .
you just hear John report about it .
they primarily talk about the war in Iraq , the aftermath of Iraq .
but they also discuss the Middle East and , as well , get the northern Ireland peace process start up again .
it have be say that Saddam Hussein rule Iraq with a iron fist .
I guess you can say in the past tense .
he regime have leave behind some disturbing evidence to support those claim .
the abandon secret police headquarters in Basra be just one example .
ITN 's Bill Neely be with the Royal Marines and he take we on a tour of Basra 's chamber of horror .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- bill neely , ITN reporter -lrb- voice-over -rrb- Saddam Hussein 's Iraq be a state of terror , and this be where it be plan and perpetrate , the headquarters of he secret police , this one in Basra .
no british soldier have be here yet .
today , as I walk in , I meet Iraqis , none of whom have ever be inside willingly .
what be to follow be a horrific education in terror and torture : in the smoking basement of the bomb building , a warren of cell .
here , prisoner be tortured .
unidentified male yes , of course .
NEELY People die .
unidentified MALE People die , people in prison without court , without trial .
NEELY any people who Saddam do not like .
unidentified male of course .
of course .
neely -lrb- voice-over -rrb- the building be crumble .
down we go , further to cell that have no light , little air , cockroach , filth , and , on the ground , a gas mask and bottle of chemical .
unidentified MALE you can imagine this every day , every month .
so many people come here , but we do not know about they at all .
NEELY these ordinary Iraqis have be terrify to come here , until today , though one student on the left have be here before .
unidentified male he be one of the prisoner here .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : for how long ?
unidentified male eight year .
unidentified male eight , nine , eight year .
neely -lrb- voice-over -rrb- and he crime for eight year in jail ?
he pray too much and be see as a dangerous radical .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : more cell .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : but the Mukhabarat headquarters have more horror to reveal .
unidentified MALE and they tie they hand behind and hang they and hang they for many day .
NEELY these man have relative murder here .
so desperate be they to tell they story that they begin reenact what they and they brother and friend have suffer .
the hook in the ceiling be for one purpose only , another hook in a different cell and a different form of torture .
Saddam Hussein control Iraq through fear , torture and execution .
and it happen here to ten of thousand of Iraqis that Saddam 's secret police deem dangerous .
this man cower for month , cram with 300 mother into a huge cell .
Hamid Fatil -lrb- ph -rrb- may look like he be act , but he be tortured here , along with he two brother , who be execute .
this man be here , too , with he brother .
unidentified MALE they sentence he to death .
and they send he to Baghdad and kill .
he be hang there , hang .
unidentified MALE there be a prisoner under the name of Ahmed Adis Aeid -lrb- ph -rrb- .
NEELY they keep record of prisoner , these and they fingerprint all that be left of they , apart from the photograph they take of exactly what they have do .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : if there be a evil center to Saddam Hussein 's regime , then it be surely here and in other place of torture .
and there be plenty here that we simply can not show you .
in this block , it be man over here , hundred of they , and woman and child here .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : to call all this a chamber of horror be a cliche .
and this place be beyond cliche .
the hundred or thousand who die here who be give no trial , no voice , cry out .
on the ground , I find a book call `` the psychology of interrogation , '' as if the man who work here for Saddam need a handbook .
I be glad of the fresh air and glad to leave , glad I could .
no one know yet whether the new Iraq will be the kind of place where these child can grow up free of the fear , the horror of torture .
Bill Neely , ITV News , Basra .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF Unspeakable .
journalist kill in the line of duty in Baghdad -- how neutral be reporter in a war suppose to be ?
we Jeff Greenfield examine that question when we come back .
WOODRUFF Well , the journalist ' death raise question about the tactic of U.S. troops try to take control of Baghdad .
they also serve as a reminder that many of we colleague cover this war be put they life on the line every day .
some thought now on the danger from we senior analyst , Jeff Greenfield .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- JEFF GREENFIELD , CNN SR. .
analyst -lrb- voice-over -rrb- when a Al - Jazeera reporter be kill today , the network charge it have be target by U.S. force .
Central command say , no , its force be trade fire from a hotel where the network be house .
at a nearby hotel , two other journalist , a photographer from Reuters and another from Tele 5 Spain die , another case , CENTCOM say , of coalition force return fire .
a kurdish journalist die in a U.S. friendly-fire accident in the north .
and a american writer/editor , `` Washington Post '' editorial columnist Michael Kelly , be kill when he Humvee plunge into a canal while evade iraqi fire .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : it be a elementary fact of life during wartime : a press pass provide no protection .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : Famed World War II reporter Ernie Pyle be kill by a sniper on a island in the Pacific .
famed combat photographer Robert Capa , who take a classic photo of a fighter 's death during the Spanish Civil War , himself die from a land mine in Indochina .
Sean Flynn , son of the famous actor Errol Flynn , disappear in Cambodia in 1970 .
more than 65 journalist of many nationality die in Southeast Asia .
ABC News producer David Kaplan be kill by sniper fire in the Balkans in 1992 .
sometimes reporter , like `` The Wall Street Journal '' 's Danny Pearl , die in cover a different kind of war .
Pearl be murder by terrorist in Pakistan .
the casualty count help put the ongoing debate about journalistic neutrality into a sharper light .
the 600 journalist embed with american troops in Iraq will be threaten by the same fire as the troops they be cover .
they safety , they life , may depend on those troops .
neutrality in a firefight ?
not likely .
and that raise a bigger question .
be they suppose to be neutral on the outcome of the war ?
in a interview with broadcasting and cable magazine , CBS News President Andrew Heyward say of the neutrality notion -- quote -- `` it be one of the stupidest thing I have ever hear .
this story be go to be tell from a U.S. point of view .
we be american reporter , the one with the troops . ''
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : now , none of this mean journalist will ignore unsettling news : military setback , lack of supplies , the infliction of civilian casualty .
reporter who ignore or distort fact be betray they craft no matter what and no matter how much that may anger the people run a war .
but whether in the old Soviet Union or Nazi Germany or South Africa or Iraq , respect for the fact do not require a reporter to throw he value over the side .
Jeff Greenfield , CNN , New York .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF and tonight on `` LARRY KING LIVE , '' Al-Jazeera correspondent Omar Al Issawi will talk to Larry about the death of he colleague and the continue plight of journalist in a war zone .
that be tonight at 9:00 p.m. Eastern , 6:00 Pacific .
just now , we want to show you scene from Andrews Air Force Base just moment ago , President Bush return to the United States from he summit in northern Ireland in Belfast with British Prime Minister Tony Blair , the president back on american soil after a quick two-day trip , less than two-day trip to Belfast , he and the prime minister discuss , of course , the war in Iraq , what happen after , as well as the peace process in the Middle East , and restart the peace process in northern Ireland .
the president then climb aboard Marine one , the helicopter , head back to the White House , where he will arrive pretty soon .
still ahead : how be the world react to the war in Iraq ?
when we return , we Richard Quest take a look .
Stay with we .
WOODRUFF you be look at live picture of the White House where President Bush watch some of the television coverage of event in Baghdad today .
separately , Vice President Cheney share he thought in a speech in New Orleans .
with I now for more on all this , CNN 's senior White House correspondent John King .
John , they have to be happy there .
JOHN KING , CNN SNR .
white HOUSE CORRESPONDENT Judy , they be .
behind the scene privately here you get a palpable sense of vindication , although publicly caution be the watchword here , administration official from the vice president on down say the war be not over yet .
some of the toughest fighting could still be ahead .
mostly they believe in those northern Iraq area Brent Sadler be just talk about before the break .
but they do believe the picture out of Baghdad today , on the one hand , send as powerful a message as you can send to the people in the Arab world who have criticize this war .
people in Baghdad celebrate .
U.S. troops assist in pull down that statue of Saddam Hussein .
across the Arab world , the administration hope to send a signal that the United States be there to help the iraqi people regain control of they own country , as a liberty , not as any imperial or occupy force .
of course , at the same time , though , the White House worry that the american people might see these picture and think the war be over .
Defense Secretary Rumsfeld and Vice President Cheney among those say the toughest fighting might still lie ahead , still unanswered question about the whereabouts of Saddam Hussein and other key member of the iraqi leadership .
the vice president make that argument today .
but even as he sound that note of caution , you do sense a little tiny bit of we tell you so .
-lrb- BEGIN video clip -rrb- DICK CHENEY , VICE PRESIDENT of the UNITED state Bottom line , with less than half of the ground force and two-third of the air asset use 12 year ago in Desert storm , Secretary Rumsfeld and General Franks have achieve a far more difficult objective .
yet until this war be fully win , we can not be overconfident in we position .
and we must not underestimate the desperation of whatever force remain loyal to the dictator .
-lrb- end video clip -rrb- KING we will not hear from the president today , we be tell , but before the week be out and perhaps as early as tomorrow official say the president be likely to offer he thought on the challenge just ahead .
so , again , behind the scene , a sense of vindication , but also a cautious attitude because of the fighting still to come .
I have to tell you , though , Judy , the CIA Director George Tenet walk out of the White House a short time ago with a giant smile on he face .
I can not recall a moment since September 11 , 2001 and those tragic event when we have see the CIA director look so happy .
WOODRUFF Well , John , give all that you have say , we know that there be a american retired general waiting in Kuwait .
but in addition to that , what step be they already take at the White House to plan for a post-saddam Hussein government in Iraq ?
king they be plan to accelerate that planning process .
Jay Garner the retired general will go into Iraq soon with he troops soon .
I say troops .
they be civilian from the U.S. government .
that will take place soon .
they be await for word from the Pentagon that it believe the security environment be secure enough for that to happen .
and begin as early as next week , there will be a series of town meeting , if you will .
the invitation will be issue by General Tommy Franks .
they be try to identify Iraqis from within the country , as well as iraqi dissident and exile , the diaspora they call it here at the White House , who will be part of a planning process to begin the process -- they say it could take week or more -- of select who should be part of that interim iraqi authority .
now , we know , one person who will be invite be plan process , those plan meeting , be Ahmed Chalabi .
he be the leader of the iraqi National Congress .
he be know to be a favorite of Vice President Dick Cheney , of Defense Secretary Rumsfeld and Secretary Rumsfeld 's top deputy , Paul Wolfowitz .
he will be involve in the planning and in those meeting .
but I also should report that there be a sense of annoyance here at the White House , even among some of Mr. Chalabi 's top supporter , that , since return to Iraq in recent day , he have complain frequently , include on we air earlier today , that the United States be move too slowly to get in the reconstruction effort , to restore electricity and restore water .
over at the Pentagon today , Defense Secretary Rumsfeld , again , a supporter of Mr. Chalabi , say that , in he view , service be already at they prewar level .
and Mr. Rumsfeld go on to say , Secretary Rumsfeld go on to say , there be still a war go on , still quite a dangerous situation -- Judy .
WOODRUFF Yes , we catch some of that irritation in he choice .
all right , John King , we senior White House correspondent , thank you .
still to come : warfare amid the celebration in Baghdad .
as Iraqis pour into the street to mark they apparent new freedom , american troops come under fire from a different area .
CNN 's Martin Savidge will show we what they come up against at Baghdad University .
-lrb- news break -rrb-
WOODRUFF The United States Navy and Coast Guard crew be provide port security in the Persian Gulf during the Iraq war .
and one group of sailor be get letter from elementary school child in North Carolina .
the student be get inspiration from they teacher , who have a personal connection , as CNN 's Daryn Kagan report .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- DARYN KAGAN , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- it start as a story on port security , how U.S. Navy and Coast Guard reserve be keep ship safe from attack in Kuwait and Iraq .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : the mission of these unit be to protect these port .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : but among the boat , gun , radar , sonar and communication , we find a secret weapon post on the side of the tent that serve as the command center : letter from second-grader .
each one start the same way .
unidentified male `` Dear brave friend . ''
unidentified male `` Dear brave friend . ''
LT. CMDR. MIKE ROBERTS , U.S. NAVY `` Dear brave friend .
hello .
my name be Ryan .
I be in second grade .
you be keep the United States of America safe .
you be ... '' UNIDENTIFIED MALE `` you be my best friend .
you can keep this in you bag .
sincerely , Ryan . ''
ROBERTS I be the big brother .
KAGAN it turn out this be actually a story about a brother , Lieutenant Commander Mike Roberts , and a supportive sister , Christine Cupolo .
CHRISTINE CUPOLO , TEACHER Yes , I do .
my brother be in Kuwait .
ROBERTS my sister be a grammar school teacher in Clayton , North Carolina .
CUPOLO he be send over right next to the Persian Gulf now since New Year 's Eve .
and this be one of many deployment he be be on , but this one be probably the most crucial .
ROBERTS she second-grader be very interested in send some letter out to the troops .
CUPOLO so , I know that , at one point or another , my child need to write .
I think that would be a real uplifting experience for the troops .
ROBERTS and she say : `` Dear brave friend .
hello .
my name be Amanda . ''
unidentified female `` we would have to say that you be a very brave person .
when the war start , you heart will be in we soul . ''
roberts for these kid to take time to read letter to we and stuff like that in they class , what more can you ask ?
just keep it go .
KAGAN there will be more letter on the way .
back in North Carolina , the Riverwood Elementary second-grader be work on the next batch .
CUPOLO absolutely .
you might want to mention that in you letter as well .
KAGAN this time , they hope the sailor will write back with answer to they question .
CUPOLO so you want to know how fast the dolphin there be swim ?
ok .
I would write that down .
I would say : `` Dear , friend , I have some question for you .
I want to know about the dolphin that be help you out over there . ''
can you do that ?
do you think you could ask they a question ?
sure .
they will be happy to answer it .
we start work on we letter the last week of February and work on they the first week of March and send they out a few week ago .
and they get the letter pretty quickly over there .
but I think this help I stay closer to my brother .
KAGAN -lrb- on camera -rrb- any message to you sister ?
ROBERTS Yes .
I would just like to tell she , thank you very much , Christine .
Hope you be do well in North Carolina .
and thank you very much to you student for all the support and the letter that they send out to we .
KAGAN -lrb- voice-over -rrb- they second-grade work keep watch over those who keep watch in the Persian Gulf .
Daryn Kagan , CNN , Kuwait .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF those letter important at both end .
that be it for this hour .
I be Judy Woodruff in Washington .
-lrb- news break -rrb- WOODRUFF yesterday , there be scene of jubilation in Baghdad , today , a suicide bombing and firefighter , grim reminder that , as U.S. Central command put it , Baghdad be still a ugly place .
CNN 's John Irvine have this profile of a city literally teeter on a razor 's edge .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- john IRVINE , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- get acquaint , very deliberately , the U.S. Marines be try to strike up a rapport with the people who be now they responsibility .
but there be still problem bring control to Baghdad , particularly at nighttime .
in the pitch black of a city without power , these soldier man a roadblock become nervous .
unidentified MALE Stay the -lrb- expletive delete -rrb- back !
back up !
IRVINE when a car fail to stop , it be the cue for a violent gun battle .
bullet be spray everywhere .
in part of Baghdad that the Americans have not yet reach , there have be looting .
this man take the horse from a stable at the home of Uday Hussein , Saddam 's eldest son .
we find the house , a large , gaudy structure , a place that just a few day ago people do not even look at for fear of they life .
this indeed be one of Uday 's home .
here , the ruling family could look out over the Tigris .
people have waste no time clear the house and wreck what could not be easily take .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : they have not quite work out just how to reach this will chandelier yet .
but , other than that , they have strip this place bare in less than 24 hour .
call it plunder , if you will , or perhaps payback .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : these Iraqis be rifle a home of a senior member of the Mukhabarat , Saddam 's dreaded secret police .
it also seem to be some kind of monitor station .
there be sophisticated equipment here .
in the basement , we find burn archive and evidence of electronic surveillance .
this have be a nerve center for spy , a place from where the bully boy keep tab to keep control .
-lrb- on camera -rrb- : we be now in the bowels of a secret police monitoring station .
look at all this gadgetry , quite sinister really , part of the apparatus of big Brother .
-lrb- voice-over -rrb- : these people be steal from a shopping center .
it have become widespread , but it be not be do with total impunity .
these thief be try to flee the German Embassy , have be shoot at by a guard .
John Irvine , ITV News , Baghdad .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
WOODRUFF some picture .
well , Laith Kubba be a iraqi exile who have family member in Iraq .
Mr. Kubba be a senior fellow at a think tank call the National Endowment for Democracy .
he be also the president of a group of iraqi exile , a group call the Iraq National Group .
he join we now from London to talk about rebuild he country .
Mr. Kubba , first of all , you thought as you have watch these scene of Baghdad , the Saddam Hussein regime fall in the last day ?
LAITH KUBBA , PRESIDENT , IRAQI NATIONAL GROUP it be a huge sigh of relief , because it could have be much worse and Baghdad could have be a war theater with more destruction to property .
and , obviously , there be four million people who could have suffer more .
so , there be a sigh of relief that it be not worse .
but , obviously , there be a great , great concern about the scene that you have be show on television .
WOODRUFF be you talk to family member now in Baghdad and around Iraq ?
and , if you be , how concerned be they about the lawlessness ?
KUBBA Well , not in the recent three or four day .
there be no phone line to Baghdad .
in other part of Iraq , I receive with great sadness the killing of one close colleague , Saeed Abu Naji Abhuey -lrb- ph -rrb- in Najaf .
he be not kill by former member of the Baath Party or the security of the army , but by just a local organized group .
so those sign to I be worry .
people be sense and feel the lack of authority or the power vacuum and be test it .
and the more they test , the more I think they be claim .
WOODRUFF how difficult will it be to sort out who will next hold power in Iraq after this transition period , however long it be , where the U.S. be in charge ?
KUBBA Well , one need to break down this process into various element .
today , there should be a authority .
and it be very likely that the U.S. and the british force be the authority on land .
and there ought to be administration .
and this ought to be primarily by Iraqis .
but when it come to government , I think we really need to map out step by step how to move from this power vacuum to the day we have election .
we need to involve the U.N. .
we need to involve all iraqi force in the country , outside the country .
but we need to do it quickly , because every day pass by with this vacuum , it be go to spell trouble .
WOODRUFF Well , we know , Mr. Kubba , there be several iraqi exile group compete for influence .
be one of they go to have a advantage ?
and , particularly , I have in mind the iraqi National Congress that Mr. Chalabi , who be assist by U.S. force in get back into Iraq ?
KUBBA I think it be one thing to gain fame and access to Washington .
it be totally another to gain legitimacy and function grounds inside Iraq .
and I think plan must not be draw in thin air out in Washington .
it must really be draw on the ground inside Iraq .
and there be 22 million people there .
it be not a void .
it be not a vacuum .
and I think all plan must be anchor there in Iraq in its reality .
WOODRUFF so do one group have a advantage over another now ?
KUBBA there be different group who have advantage over other in different part of the country .
unfortunately , we do not have a national group that can appeal to Iraqis as Iraqis within a credible voice.this need to be construct , maybe through a conference to be hold in Baghdad , where representative from province all over Iraq need to participate , as well as political group .
but we do not have a single group , a single leadership or a single council yet .
WOODRUFF we be talk with Laith Kubba , who be the president of a group of iraqi exile .
the group be call the Iraq National Group .
Mr. Kubba , we thank you so much for talk to we from London .
KUBBA thank you .
WOODRUFF we appreciate it .
KUBBA thank you .
WOODRUFF here in Washington , member of the House of Representatives come together to support America 's armed force .
up next : a live report on that ceremony and the latest effort to pass a spending bill to pay for the war .
WOODRUFF A reminder , Jessica Lynch come back to the United States within the hour .
Tonight , a special on the rescue of Jessica Lynch .
that be at 8:30 p.m. Eastern , 5:30 Pacific .
well , after many try month of defend Saddam Hussein , Ambassador Mohammed Aldouri finally say the game be over .
now , he tenure at the United Nations be over , too .
last night before leave the United States , Aldouri say he hope to see free election in a free Iraq .
CNN 's Richard Roth have more on this once prominent frontman for the iraqi regime .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- RICHARD ROTH , CNN senior U.N. CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- the last time iraqi 's U.N. ambassador address the Security Council , the U.S. ambassador walk out in protest .
MOHAMMED ALDOURI , IRAQI AMBASSADOR to U.N. -lrb- through translator -rrb- what happen be that the iraqi army up until now have not confront the United States force .
ROTH but now , it be the iraqi ambassador 's time to leave , the United States .
ALDOURI The game be over .
I hope that peace will prevail , and that the iraqi people at the end of the day will have a peaceful life .
ROTH Mohammed Aldouri spend more year as a university professor than as a diplomat .
in New York , he brief people interested in he country , recently a group of Lehigh University student .
but he never get comfortable in the media glare before and especially during the war .
unidentified MALE you say you be not ... ALDOURI -lrb- UNINTELLIGIBLE -rrb- have happen with you ?
please , why do you come here ?
unidentified MALE because we think ... ALDOURI Tomorrow , I will see you in the U.N. ROTH and at the U.N. , all ambassador carry out they instruction whether they agree with they or not .
JUAN GABRIEL VALDES , CHILEAN AMBASSADOR to U.S. well , I think that he have a very , very difficult task .
he defend the position of he country with courage , I would say .
JEREMY GREENSTOCK , british ambassador to U.N. he be a decent man , and I hope he find a decent life represent a decent government .
unidentified MALE Aldouri be a dear friend of mine .
ROTH Aldouri also draw support from opponent of the war a gift of paper crane .
but on the eve of Aldouri 's departure , woman represent the daughter of the american revolution pass by , want to let fly with something else .
unidentified female if I have egg , I would like to throw egg at he .
ROTH U.N. diplomat do not toss egg , just nod .
several month ago , the U.S. ambassador , John Negroponte , and the iraqi ambassador almost lock eye .
and forget about Kuwait .
MOHAMMED ABULHASAN , KUWAITI AMBASSADOR to U.N. nothing .
unidentified MALE not one word ?
ABULHASAN not one word , except a normal greet of , `` hello , how be you ? ''
ROTH that be as close as resident of New York 's Upper East Side district get to know Aldouri , who keep a low profile , like many in the big city .
it be a neighborhood you would not expect the diplomatic post of a enemy government to turn up .
ALDOURI I be very thankful for the people of New York , for they generosity .
this be a very decent people .
I be really -- without talk about the problem in Iraq , I be really happy to be here in New York , within the people of New York .
ROTH Aldouri be worry most about the people of Iraq .
ALDOURI when I see , what I have see , what you see , my heart squeeze blood .
ROTH Aldouri be in better spirit as he depart for the airport with a final message .
ALDOURI I hope that the United States Army will leave Iraq soon , and we will have free election for a free government for a free future for Iraq and the people for Iraq .
this be my message to you , to the people of the United States .
ROTH The ambassador 's prime concern now : he family in Iraq .
one day he hope to teach again back home .
Richard Roth , CNN , United Nations .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF we will try to track he progress and see if he be able to do that , Ambassador Aldouri .
still ahead , looter cast about for new place to loot , and chaos be king in Baghdad .
we will have a report .
WOODRUFF one of the toughest job in Iraq right now be that of the military doctor .
CNN medical correspondent , Dr. Sanjay Gupta , have be travel with the Devil Docs throughout the war and now they be close to Baghdad .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- SANJAY GUPTA , CNN MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- each of these bang and explosion come with a story .
some we will never know .
for other , the story can be see in they injury .
nobody know these story better than the Devil Docs , Naval corpsmen who never look the other way , but rather face what need to be do without flinch .
they be often the first face the injured see , be they iraqi or coalition force member .
even while statute be come down and there be dancing in the street , the consequence of continue firefight be see here .
the work of the Devil Docs be by no means over .
the Navy have set up a helicopter landing zone just a 100 meter from a mobile operating room , just on the outskirts of Baghdad .
this be the closest front line surgical company .
Corpsmen quickly take patient by ambulance away from the blow sand to a triage tent .
it be there the doctor begin they work .
over 45 minute as we watch , 32 patient be deliver here , evaluate and nine operation start ; 29 of those deliver , Marines involve in a firefight in the center of Baghdad .
they story could be see in the shrapnel wound of rocket-propelled grenade and bullet wound from semi-automatic weapon .
the operation be on they hand , abdomen and face .
two of the Marines , too far go .
for many of the survivor , that news be the most difficult to handle .
along with the medical care , hand be hold , spirit be lift .
Dr. Sanjay Gupta , CNN with the Devil Docs outside Baghdad .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb-
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- mile o'brien , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- the people of Tikrit be say Saddam 's family leave that city three day ago , well before the Americans arrive .
Saddam 's clan be say to have leave for a small village in the desert .
12:19 p.m. : CNN 's Ryan Chilcote report the 101st Airborne 2nd brigade find 11 of what a Army general describe as chem-bio lab bury to avoid detection near Karbala , each of the structure 20-by - 20 foot .
and the military also find over 1,000 pound of document bury at the site .
U.S. inspection will continue there .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF Well , Baghdad be a city where drinking water and work telephone be hot commodity .
now , regular cell phone rarely work these day in the city , we be tell , but satellite phone be another story entirely .
CNN 's Rula Amin report from the iraqi capital .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- RULA AMIN , CNN CORRESPONDENT -lrb- voice-over -rrb- they wait for hour to find a journalist and they plead with we to borrow we mobile satellite phone .
they need to send a message to they family abroad just to tell they , `` we be alive , '' say this woman .
here , they wait outside a restaurant where journalist hang out .
and they be desperate .
`` only for one minute , '' say this mother .
she want to call she pregnant daughter Saba -lrb- ph -rrb- in Sweden to see if she have deliver .
`` it be not good for she to worry about we , '' she say .
across the fence , a 21-year-old U.S. Marine name Jason Cook -lrb- ph -rrb- be after the same phone .
he want to call he mom in Houston .
a `` New York Times '' reporter lend cook he mobile sit phone .
unidentified male I love you too , mom .
hey , old man .
I be in the middle of Baghdad , just patrolling up and down the street .
AMIN Cook have not speak to he family since Super Bowl Sunday , January 26 .
on this one sidewalk in Baghdad , they be all do the most natural thing during war , try to reach they love one .
unidentified male my mother , brother and sister .
AMIN -lrb- on camera -rrb- how many do you have ?
unidentified male I get a older brother and a little brother and sister .
AMIN -lrb- voice-over -rrb- he mother tell he to keep he head down .
unidentified MALE she do not believe I be really talk to she .
AMIN we do we share .
and the first to call be the mother .
Saba have not deliver yet .
nevertheless , the mother be happy .
everyone want to call .
we could not accommodate everybody .
so , on small note , they write the phone number we do not get to dial , hope we would deliver on we promise that we would call on they behalf .
Rula Amin , CNN , Baghdad .
-lrb- end videotape -rrb- WOODRUFF make you wish they have enough satellite phone to go around for everybody .
thanks , Rula .
up next : the commander-in-chief 's political future .
now that the war be wind down , be he support among Democrats look up ?
WOODRUFF two Americans who give they life to Operation iraqi freedom be bury at Arlington National Cemetery today .
Marine Lance corporal Patrick Nixon be one of 17 kill in a ambush near Nasiriyah on March 23 .
he be 21 year old and the first tennessean to die in the war .
and Idaho Air National Guardsman Major Gregory Stone be bury with honor at Arlington .
he die of injury from a grenade attack by a fellow soldier .
and that be it for this special edition of INSIDE POLITICS .
I be Judy Woodruff .
we thank you for join we .
-lrb- MARKET UPDATE -rrb- WOODRUFF and this final story : retire Senator Strom Thurmond have never make a secret about he fondness for young , pretty woman .
so some think Thurmond 's travel plan in South Carolina next month be rather fitting .
he will fly to he first public appearance since return to he home state aboard the private jet of a Hooters Air executive .
Hooters Air be a spin-off of a restaurant chain know for its scantily clad waitress .
but a local Republican official insist there will not be any Hooters girl onboard with the 100-year-old Thurmond .
smile .
that be it for inside politics .
I be Judy Woodruff .
thanks for join we .
BLITZER welcome back to late edition .
we return now to my interview earlier today with the United States defense secretary , Donald Rumsfeld .
-lrb- begin videotape -rrb- blitzer I know during the war , before the war , you be very concerned about the position of the syrian government , cooperate with Iraqis , have a open border , if you will .
have the situation improve , especially in the aftermath now of the secretary of state 's meeting with Bashar al-Asad ?
RUMSFELD Well , I guess time will tell .
I talk to Secretary Powell this morning on the phone a bit , and it be not , I think you need to let the dust settle on that .
he be , in my judgment , have a visit that be worth do , and the president ask he to do it , and it be the right thing to do .
we will see what progress come .
you know , word be one thing , action be another .
BLITZER but right now you be open-minded as far as Syria on whether they will crack down on terrorism , take some of the other step that you want they to take ?
RUMSFELD I know what they have be do , and it be be unhelpful .
I know that Secretary Powell be just there and advise they that it be unhelpful , and give they some pointer and some suggestion for the future .
in my view , they be make some unwise decision previously .
what they will do after this visit remain to be see .
BLITZER The secretary of state have write you a letter express , apparently , some concern about the length that the prisoner be go to be spending , those detain at the U.S. Naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba , about 600 or so of they .
be there any movement in try to determine the fate of these individual ?
RUMSFELD I do not think that be quite accurate as to what he write I about .
BLITZER All right , tell I what ... RUMSFELD I think what he write I about be the fact that the inter-agency process , where we have all these FBI and Department of Justice and CIA and DIA , and what have you , involve in interrogate these detainee , it take time to find out what intelligence they have .
it also take time to figure out what law enforcement process might be appropriate , and what Colin and I have be concern about , both of we , be that it be take so long .
there be a number of country , and the Department of State have the responsibility of deal with those country , that have foreign national in Gitmo , in Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , be detain , and those country , understandably , would like to know when they could have those people.So the inter-agency process take a great deal of time .
Colin and I be try to speed up that process , and that be what that be all about .
BLITZER let I just , a couple of nugget to sort of wrap up before I let you go .
Victory parade for the troops .
I remember cover General Schwarzkopf , the parade in Washington and New York after the first Gulf War .
do you want the troops to be honor in that way when they come back , to have parade in New York , Washington , elsewhere ?
RUMSFELD there be no question but that the troops , the young man and woman , do such a superb job that there have to be a way to honor they , and there will be .
and General Franks and he team have do just a superb job for we country and for the world , and indeed for the iraqi people , who have be liberate .
what be the best way to do that ?
in the case of 1991 , the task be to go in and get they out of Kuwait , and they do it , and they be properly greet come back to the United States .
in this instance , it be a very different task .
it be to remove that regime , and it be part of a global war on terrorism that be not over .
we still have to face the problem of a number of global terrorist network and terrorist state that exist , that work with those global network .
and on the one hand we will , in fact , find a way to honor the courage and dedication and talent of these young man and woman , and we will do it well .
whether it will be model off the 1991 thing , I do not know .
I kind of doubt it , because it be such a different circumstance .
certainly , we war plan be not model off of 1991 .
BLITZER one final question on North Korea .
if the North Koreans pursue they nuclear weapon ambition ... RUMSFELD Yes .
BLITZER ... a preemptive strike , be that something that be out there ?
rumsfeld I be not one who speculate about thing like that .
I know that back in the 1990s , in the Clinton administration , Secretary Perry call in the former secretary of defense , and we have a discussion , and they clearly have tee up a military option that they be consider , and they then at a certain moment be able to do some thing that persuade they that that be not appropriate .
but those be very serious issue , and I leave they for the president .
BLITZER President Bush aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln on Thursday , formally declare the successful accomplishment of the military mission in Iraq .
welcome back to late edition .
join we now be two key member of the United States Senate Foreign Relations Committee .
in he home state of Indiana , the committee 's chairman , Republican Senator Richard Lugar .
and here in Washington , democratic Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut .
senator , welcome back to late edition .
Mr. Chairman , let I begin with you .
be you among those who be begin to conclude that , when all the dust settle , the U.S. may not find weapon of mass destruction in Iraq ?
SEN. RICHARD LUGAR -lrb- R -rrb- , INDIANA No , I concur with Secretary Powell , Secretary Rumsfeld , the president , that weapon of mass destruction be there , and likewise , that we will be lead to they by people knowledgeable in the country as to where they be .
what form we may find they and what trace of destruction and all the rest of it will be very interesting and , likewise , the intellectual capital that be there to produce more .
because not much else be -- you do not need much to get it go again .
and that , I think , we have to be work with these people who be in the business to make sure they do not re-enter the business , much as we do with russian scientist under the nunn-lugar program .
BLITZER what about you , Senator Dodd , do you believe , in the end , they will find weapon of mass destruction ?
SEN. CHRISTOPHER DODD -lrb- D -rrb- , CONNECTICUT I have no evidence to the contrary .
and certainly , they have use they in the past .
there be no doubt about that at all , both in Iran and against the kurdish population .
so , whether or not they find they in the exact form that many would assume they would be the case -- possibly some get out of the country .
it would not surprise I to hear that .
but I be go to work on the assumption , base on the intelligence that have be gather , that the weapon of mass destruction exist .
BLITZER what if they do not ?
DODD Well , you know , they have use it in the past , and I think the point that Senator Lugar just make -- certainly have the intellectual capacity to do this be prove already by the fact they have use they in the past .
so , I would not dwell on that point specifically , because Saddam Hussein clearly be a producer and a user of biological and chemical weapon .
he clearly be on the track to acquire a nuclear capacity , and the world be a safer place today because he be not rule Iraq .
BLITZER Will the U.S. lose creditability , Mr. Chairman , if , if the U.S. find no hard evidence , no so-called smoking gun ?
LUGAR No , we have full credibility in Iraq .
we have prosecute with the alliance a successful liberation of the iraqi people , and we have clearly cause Saddam to destroy weapon of mass destruction , or at least to suppress evidence of they .
that be a victory of sorts.this be a facet that be important .
it be important in the war against terrorism that we rout out whatever be there and , likewise , the people involve , because they might help supply al Qaeda or other terrorist along the trail .
BLITZER Senator Dodd , how important be it for the U.S. to conclusively learn what happen to Saddam Hussein ?
DODD Well , it be important .
but I do not think it be as important as find Osama bin Laden , for the simple reason that I do not think Saddam Hussein today pose any threat , wherever he be .
if he be alive , obviously , he do not pose the kind of threat that a Osama bin Laden do with he cellular network around the world to reactivate al Qaeda and international terrorism .
so , it would certainly be good to know where he be .
it would be , certainly , to know , to apprehend he , to bring he before a court of justice .
but I do not think it be absolutely critical for the ultimate success of this mission that we apprehend he or find out what happen to he .
BLITZER and you agree with that assessment , Mr. Chairman ?
LUGAR Yes , I think that Senator Dodd be right on .
BLITZER what about the length of the U.S. military presence in Iraq , Senator Lugar ?
how long do you anticipate large number of U.S. troops will remain there ?
LUGAR Well , I be hearten by what Secretary Rumsfeld tell you in the last interview , that we will have troops there as long as necessary , but no longer than necessary .
I think that be a pretty good way to state it .
my own view be that the security of the country clearly be we responsibility presently .
we be try to pass that on to other .
likewise , the other government 's procedure , the fledgling beginning on democracy , and all the rest .
but that be go to require a undergirding .
now , in due course , as everybody point out , we may get help from other country .
we may bring in NATO ally or the United Nations or other people in the Arab world .
that would be helpful .
but for the moment , this be we responsibility .
and we ought not to be have large debate about how rapidly we move out .
and I be upset , in a way , to hear report that by the fall , three division out of five would be go .
I think Secretary Rumsfeld disabuse we of that today .
BLITZER and what about you , Senator Dodd , not only the length of time , but the cost to U.S. taxpayer ?
have you be give any ballpark estimate what this be go to cost the United States ?
DODD No .
well , what we have hear the number of reconstruction run around $ 100 billion .
we put $ 2.5 billion in , in the last supplemental appropriation bill .
so it be go to be costly .
these rfp , these seek bid on various contract be rather costly , and so it be go to be expensive .
and clearly the responsibility be go to fall principally on the United States .
now , I would hope that sooner rather than later we could see a civilian government emerge in Iraq , a democratically elect one , that there would be more cooperation from the international community , on both the peacekeeping side as well as the political restructuring that be necessary in Iraq .
and to the extent we can move that along more quickly , I think we be all go to be better off .
be the sole , or almost the sole power there , both in term of reconstruction and politically , expose we to great vulnerability .
BLITZER Senator Lugar , we have to take a quick break , but before we do , I want to just ask you , the U.N. role -- you say there could be a U.N. role .
do you specifically want the United Nations to have some sort of peacekeep role there ?
and secondarily , what about country like France , Germany , and Russia , which oppose the Bush administration 's war plan , do you want they shut out ?
LUGAR No , I do not want anybody shut out .
and I do hope the United Nations will play a vital role in Iraq , whether it be in peacekeeping or various other way , and I hope that that will occur soon .
I think we really need a internationalization of the process , for the very reason that Senator Dodd point out .
BLITZER All right .
we be go to take that quick break .
stand by , Senators .
we have a lot more ground to cover .
Senators Lugar and Dodd will be stay with we .
they will also be take you phone call .
late edition will continue right after this .
the search for a small plane that disappear sunday in massachusett have a bittersweet ending .
three young boy , age 2 , 5 and 10 survive and be in critical condition after spending in 18 hour in the cold .
the father , who be pilot the plane , also be rescue , but die late yesterday at the hospital .
the boy ' mother and two other brother be kill .
official say the pilot report ice on the plane and plan to land in massachusett when the plane leave radar .
aviator describe the scene as they approach it from above .
the aircraft be -- the cabin be intact completely .
the wing be off of it .
but it look like a survivable crash .
initially the wreckage be spot , and there be no person spot .
but when we move in closer and start to scan the area , then i see the 2-year-old wave from next to the airplane .
the family have be head to new hampshire from lakeland , florida when they plane go down .
if you be one of the many unemployed , expect company .
valerie morris join we live from new york with that story .
valerie ?
hi , renay , sharon .
the pace of job cut be quicken .
the survey by challenger gray and christmas say layoff rise about 5 % in february .
that be the second straight monthly increase .
the ax fall heavily on government and non-profit worker as many state and local government face severe budget crunch .
the u.s. economy have lose more than 2 million job in the past two year .
airline be get flyer to destination ontime more often .
the top ten air carrier arrive ontime more and cancel fewer flight in january than the month before .
a government report say the improvement be the result of change in air traffic control , and a dropoff in passenger .
despite operate under bankruptcy law , unite post the best on time performance .
unite also cancel the fewest flight .
still unite lose $ 382 million in january .
and one other note of improvement .
airline report fewer complaint about lose , damage or delay luggage .
turn to wall street .
disappointing auto sale be dent the share of the big three .
of course there be ongoing fear about terrorism and a war with iraq .
the dow have slip 116 point .
the nasdaq be @ down three
lawyer in texa be try to keep they client from become the 300th person execute in the state since 1982 , when texas resume capital punishment .
they be ask the supreme court to block tonight 's scheduled execution of delma bank .
bank be convict of shooting and kill a 16-year-old at a park in 1980 .
he lawyer say he trial attorney do a bad job and the prosecutor improperly keep african american off he jury .
he would be the 11th killer put to death in texa this year .
in northern iraq , u.s. warplane hit target include a ridge east of mosul , where iraqi troops have be entrench .
two f-14 tomcat strike the target , the same area be a site of heavy bombing yesterday .
after today 's air strike , 13 iraqi soldier abandon they post and surrender to kurdish fighter .
we be able to resupply , rearm and refuel very close to the area we be work in .
no other fife navy ship could have get in the water .
no other ship could have do the command and control .
from these special warfare boat .
one concern these man have in the waterway of iraq be the threat of a ambush , so there be five weapon station on the special operation craft .
they include grenade launcher and machine gun .
reporter : more than 100 vessel search and secure in four day , legitimate merchant turn smuggler , all aboard ship that be potential hidaway for iraqi weapon and soldier .
command this mission , lieutenant jay keller .
that be what we be do as we come through here and completely search theses have else to make sure there be no one lurk on there with weapon or rpg or some other pad to take down helo that be fly by or any other ship that be come in through here .
reporter : keller take we onboard a iraqi vessel , one of the most common threat lurk around the sea bed .
this be the railway system .
what you see here , you see the roller and you can stack four mine out here and roll they off the back as they be transit through .
these crewman search the boast and collect these log , pepper with picture of iraqi president saddam hussein .
all along the waterway , iraqi sailor wave to heller 's crew .
they hand out food and medical supplies when they k. .
no cigarette .
this be a work middle class that want to work and make money for themselves and they understand that when we come in here , we will make that available to they .
hopefully , pay huge dividend to the iraqi people in the long run as force like jay keller 's detachment continue to pay off big in `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
along the waterway in southern iraq , kyra phillip , cnn .
u.s.-led force be approach iraq 's capital after destroy the medina and baghdad division of the republican guard .
we will have that story and all of the latest development in `` operation iraqi freedom '' just two minute away .
i be kathleen kennedy .
you have be watch cnn headline news .
central command say it be investigate iraqi allegation that u.s. attack be to blame for hundred of civilian casualty in hillah .
that be about 60 mile south of baghdad .
a member of the international committee of red cross visit the local hospital there , and he say it be a horrible scene .
the associated press be report that u.s. troops have launch a attack on saddam international airport .
about nine mile from the iraqi capital .
pentagon official brief reporter who refuse to comment about any activity at the airport .
official say they will make comment after certain operation be conduct .
but not before .
saddam international airport have become a battlefield .
witness say iraqi troops be dig in try to fend off coalition troops make they way into the capital 's main airport .
a reuter correspondent say dozen of iraqi civilian and soldier be kill in what witness call a barrage of u.s. artillery .
we begin south of baghdad , - - - where u.s. troops have find - - f | - what may be chemical - - - - weapon material .
- - - - - element of the army 's 101st - - airborne division discover - the chemical bury in barrel - beneath a agricultural complex - - - - - - - near karbala .
- - troops also find a large amount of conventional weapon - at the site .
- - initial test on the chemical - be inconclusive .
- - - f | no car a higher level test indicate no carrier the presence of nerve no carrier - - - - - and blister agent , but those - f | test be not always accurate .
- f | ring no carrier the commander of the 101st say f | - f | ring no carri the chemical may be pesticide no carrier or chemical agent that have not be weaponize .
- - f | - - - - - - - -
the struggle for power in a postsaddam iraq have begin .
a key faction bidding for control announce it will protest the presence of a prominent iraqi exile leader .
the head of the iraqi democratic movement say he group will hold a demonstration in nasiriyah to denounce the presence of ahmad chalabi .
chalabi be the founder and leader of the iraqi national congress .
he be escort into iraq tuesday by u.s. marine .
chalabi stage he own rally yesterday to support he bid to become the next leader of iraq .
sharon osbourne do not enjoy she meal at a los angele restaurant last night .
ozzy 's wife reportedly get into a fight with hollywood agent renee tab .
sharon spit on tab and call she name .
osbourne 's spokeswoman say sharon be quote , `` viciously assault and treat at a hospital . ''
disagreement between the woman begin month ago when osbourne say tab atend she family 's new year 's eve party uninvited and then win the door prize , a $ 15,000 necklace .
a spokesman say that if any charge be file , they will be on the low end of the misdemeanor scale .
a palestinian terrorist leader want for a deadly 1985 cruise ship hijacking be in u.s. custody in iraq .
u.s. source tell cnn mohamm `` abu '' abba be capture about 50 mile west of baghdad .
palestinian source say he have try to flee into syria , but be turn away at the border .
in october of 1985 , four hijacker under he command take over the italian cruise ship `` achille lauro '' and kill a wheelchair - bind american tourist , leo klinghoffer .
abba be convict in absentia by a italian court and sentence to five life term in prison .
time now to check the business news with carrie lee in new york .
carrie .
a you say it , renay .
the dow be in negative territory much of the day .
a couple stock lose ground , coca cola , down 6.1 % .
they do okay on the profit quarter , but the taste vowel come in late for all the region that be why it be sell off today .
you can see the nasdaq pretty nice gain hold steady throughout the day , mainly due to intel and microsoft .
they be in flu enshall on thed ?
hey have better than expect profit report for the recent quarter .
they both have good thing to say go forward up or reiterate 2003 guidance .
good solid report .
motor row la .
cut another 3,000 job by the end of the year .
profit for the end of the year do see profit as well .
motorola and texas instrument both in the chip base as well swing to profit as well , with sale up 20 % .
finally amr , the stock gain 15 % yesterday , today 's share up another sen. 8 % .
the flight attendant have until 6:00 today to ratify labor concession .
the pilot union and ground crew do so yesterday .
the flight attendant come in with a close vote reject these concession so the ceo have extend the deadline today , if they do not ratify these agreement , amr will have to file for bankruptcy .
investor be bet they will agree , 16.8 % to the upside be certainly a vote of confidence .
back to you , guy .
seven former p.o.w.s be get one step closer to home .
they will be arrive at ramstein air base in germany a few hour from now .
once doctor there say they be good to go , the seven will head stateside .
doctor in kuwait have already say the six man and one woman be in good shape , so they may not have to stay in germany very long .
the former p.o.w.s be rescue sunday about 75 mile north of baghdad .
they have be stick close together ever since .
medical officer say they become a team while in captivity and want to stay together as a team until it be time to go to they separate home .
major league baseball send its head of security to chicago to review the second incident of a on-field fan attack in the last seven month .
the league be review security at all ballpark to crack down on spectator violence .
the kansa city royal consider not play tonight before the team be assure that security measure have be tighten .
in northern iraq , u.s. marine and resident exchange gunfire in the city of mosul today , in the second day of civil disturbance there .
a senior kurdish intelligence official say citizen be protest the american occupation of the city 's main government building .
seven iraqi be kill by u.s. marine , who say they be respond to sniper fire .
hospital official say 17 people have be kill and 18 wound over the past 2 day .
central command say troops be involve in a gun battle yesterday .
call he the man with the golden gun .
saddam hussein 's son uday be apparently the owner of 74 golden gun .
the ak-47 's in the stash be gold-plated .
there also be silver and nickel-plated weapon .
one that be a gift from saddam have a engraving from the former iraqi leader .
police in pennsylvania a student fatally shoot a principal before kill himself this morning .
it happen in the cafeteria of red lion area junior high school about 30 mile southeast of harrisburg .
it happen at 7:30 this morning .
student then be move across the street to a senior high school .
german police say a teenage lebanese gunman , who hijack a bus today , be hope to free a key september 11th suspect .
the gunman be accuse of commandeer the bus in the north german city of breman and hold 16 people hostage during a 75-mile police chase down the autobahn .
negotiator say he demand the release of four prisoner , include ramzi binalshibh , a september 11th suspect apprehend last year in pakistan .
police capture the 17-year-old hijacking suspect without firing a shot .
all hostage be release unharmed .
a american astronaut and russian cosmonaut be settle in at the international space station .
a russian soyuz capsule drop they off this morning after docking perfectly at the orbit outpost .
it be the first manned flight to the space station since the february first shuttle `` columbia '' disaster .
about 90 minute after the docking , the crew open the hatch between the two spacecraft .
edward lu and yuri malenchenko of russia will spend the next six month in the space station .
they be replace the two astronaut and one cosmonaut currently there .
the soyuz will carry that crew back to earth may 4th .
president bush be push congress to pass he $ 15 billion worldwide program for fight aid .
at a white house gathering of aid activist and lawmaker from around the world , the president say hir plan could prevent 7 million new hiv infection -- and treat at least 2 million people over the next decade .
and the dixie chick open they u.s. tour tomorrow night in greenville , south carolina .
the popular band have be criticize within country music circle for comment by lead singer natalie maine .
she say she be embarrass to be from the same state as president bush .
she have since apologize for she remark .
hmm .
those dixie chick .
speaking of chick -- call it puppy love .
call it maternal instinct , but , mostly it be just out of the ordinary .
andrea ash from kezus in portland have this story of chicken that decide to take a new day job .
reporter : people have long struggle with the question , why do the chicken cross the road ?
2 - but all the scott family want to know be , why do a chicken adopt they ten new puppy ?
every time we look out we window it be like , what be she do in there ?
it look so out of place .
it be just funny .
reporter : the puppy be bear easter sunday .
soon after , one of the family three chicken fly the coop and take up residence in the crate build especially for the puppy .
they go in there and nuzzle with the puppy , or lay she egg and sit there with the mother .
they be just all happy , a little family in there .
reporter : at first the sight shock the scott family .
they try to shoo the hen away but she keep come back .
even put up baby gate to try to keep the chicken out .
no match for she .
she simply fly over .
it also get past the puppy ' protective father .
i be go to sit with these puny .
reporter : the scott run it past they vet and the vet assure the em if a , as long as the hen leave she crate to the do business , she be no harm to the pup .
the family say the chicken keep the place clean .
so she be free to stay .
a pretty good relationship with that chicken .
she do not mind they crawl around underneath she .
reporter : when the mom come in , the puppy know exactly where to go for milk -- sort of pt a little confusion .
the pip do not exactly know the difference between fur and feather yet .
after all , they be only a week old .
eventually they all find the real mom .
no one know what be will happen as the pup grow older and be able to open they eye .
chance be , they will always have a fondness from one hen .
those puppy be in for a heck of a surprise when they do open they eye .
be not they ?
the puppy come home to roost !
that be a good one .
that be a great story .
we will try to follow that in we next half hour .
we will hil you what the ftc be do to crack down on internekz auction fraud .
that and the top story in just two minute .
i be mike galano .
and i be rudi bakhtiar .
we leave you with sountd from willie nelson , the country legend be celebrate he 70th birthday .
this be cnn `` headline news tonight . ''
a week after these picture surface , and after say he would fight for he job , larry eustachy resign as basketball coach at iowa state .
the damage to he credibility be too much after eustachy admit he party with student at rival school , and that he be a alcoholic .
he seep a $ 960,000 buyout from the university .
24 hour after a coordinate series of suicide bombing in saudi arabia , the death toll be still rise .
a eighth american have die .
in all , 21 people be kill , not include the nine suspect bomber .
nearly 200 people be injure .
u.s. and saudi official say the bombing bear the trademark of al qaeda .
they may have be time to coincide with the arrival of secretary of state colin powell in riyadh .
the state department be order all non-essential diplomat and dependent out of the country .
a fbi team be head to saudi arabia to help investigate the attack .
they target three residential compound for american and other westerner .
convict oklahoma city bombing conspirator terry nichol will stand trial again on state murder charge .
nichol be serve a life term for he federal manslaughter and conspiracy conviction stem from the death of eight federal employee in the 1995 blast .
a oklahoma city judge have rule prosecutor present enough evidence at a preliminary hearing to try nichol on murder charge for the other 160 victim of the attack .
they will seek the death penalty .
timothy mcveigh , convict of set off the bomb that destroy the alfr p. murrah federal building , be execute nearly two year ago .
i be alisha davis .
use to be the king of pop .
now you could call he the king of lawsuit .
michael jackson file suit against universal music , the parent company of motown record say he owe he for music he record with the jackson five back in the 1970 .
the gloved one claim the label have be release new album and jackson five merchandise without give he `` a single dollar . ''
jackson have be in and out of courtroom lately .
in recent month , he be be sue by a auction house for non-payment , and by a concert promoter for allegedly back out of two millennium performance .
israel have experience its fifth suicide bombing in three day .
police say a bomber blow herself up outside a northern israel shopping center when she be stop by a security guard .
three people plus the bomber be kill , and at least 30 other be hurt .
the french press agency say the militant group `` islamic jihad '' be claim responsibility .
5,400 sailor and marine be back at home after serve in iraq .
they be the crew of the `` uss harry s. truman . ''
they have reunite with they family and friend , at the aircraft carrier 's home port in norfolk , virginia .
the `` truman '' be the first east coast-based carrier to return from the war .
no one seem to be sure what be happen to saddam hussein and he two son , but one thing be become more clear -- uday and qusay be just as bad as they father if not worse .
`` time '' magazine 's michael weisskopf have uncover some stunning detail about the life of these two .
he join we now from washington .
thanks for take the time to join we .
michael , as i read the article , we know that these be not good guy , put it mildly , but as you see and hear the revelation , what be you reaction ?
they be stomach turning , to put it bluntly .
the extent of the depravity be truly0stunning , you be right and they take different path , these two guy .
the younger of the two brother , qusay be a very ic professional killer who pull the trigger with political aim in mind .
we have eyewitness to he order of execution of hundred of people in 1991 during the shiite muslim uprising .
he brother , uday , be very highly personal , arbitrary , spontaneous in he attack , extend to young girl , to friend , to employee .
it be just extraordinary .
with uday , i mean , the story , you open the article , what you cowrote this article the sum of two evil , the reign of terror with saddam 's son abduct a 14-year-old , rape she , crash wedding party to rape the bride .
be that about as bad as it get with these guy ?
i guess it can not get much worse .
i think that the depth may be how he treat he friend , % and there be a couple of story we hear about how he force friend to drink large quantity of grain alcohol until they vomit .
also one friend he be afraid be go to leave the country and spill the bean on he .
he have he arrest by he fedayeen saddam .
he have he hold down , tong pull out by pliers and slice off with a scapel .
awful .
people still fear they and saddam hussein himself .
how do you get people to talk ?
be they forthcoming or pretty reticent about talk about these guy ?
it be a hard report .
it be hard to find people , and then hard to get they to talk .
over time , we gain trust .
we promise to hold on to people 's anonimity if we could .
after a little while , after we prime the pump , the people want to
good evening .
welcome , everyone .
mike galano be off tonight .
we top story -- eric robert rudolph have officially say he do not do it .
he plead not guilty to bombing a birmingham woman 's clinic in 1998 .
the suspect serial bomber appear in a federal courthouse tuesday afternoon .
he be also suspect in three atlanta-area bombing .
north carolina authority say rudolph open up to they about he five year on the run .
he say he hunt wild animal , search the trash for food , and cover himself with leaf to make it through the winter .
welcome and good evening , everyone .
mike be off tonight .
to we top story of the evening -- martha stewart be step down as head of she media empire .
she announce she decision to vacate she post as chief executive of martha stewart live omnimedia , follow word of a federal indictment .
in a statement , she say she be step aside in the best interest of the company , but she will stay on the board of director .
stewart plead not guilty to a nine-count indictment .
the charge include conspiracy to obstruct justice and perjury connect to a insider trading scandal .
the government also file civil charge against she .
she be charge with use insider information to bail out of a biotech stock the day before its price tank , and then try to cover it up .
she stockbroker be also charge .
if convict on all count , stewart face up to 30 year in prison and $ 2 million in fine .
there be a time when offspring of london 's rich and famous be roll through hyde park by black-clad nanny push silver cross pram .
the high-end baby carriage company go bust last year .
but a toymaker and one man 's dream have put the silver cross pram back on the stroller circuit .
here 's jim boulden .
reporter : a well-heeled baby like princess , see .
the distinctive karbage stroll tlue london 's fashionable park way nanny at the ready .
that be , until silver cross go out of business last year .
all be not lose for the rich and famous baby .
a toy company buy the silver cross name so they could make toy version .
then one former worker persuade the company to let he make the real one again .
i go away for two week , reflect on my future and feel i could not convince myself until it be over .
i feel t7ire be something else too , much history behind silver cross to end be now .
reporter : he buy the machinery , move to a new factory , rehire some of the old worker and start heritage program .
it be be near lay year since the last programme be manufacture at the old factory .
this one be bellmore oh 1 , the first to cull off the new line and destine for harrod 's .
it be hand deliver to harrod harrod 's by the new chief executive nick paxton who would not trust its futcher to anyone else .
the store be now
the founder and former ceo of imclone just learn the penalty for he role in the pharmaceutical company 's insider trading scandal .
sam waksal be sentence to seven year and three month in federal prison .
he be also be fine $ 3 million and be order to pay $ 1.2 million in restitution to the new york state tax commission .
waksal plead guilty last fall to six count of security fraud , bank fraud , conspiracy to obstruct justice and perjury .
he be be release on he own cog in a san before he be to report to jail .
waksal admit to tip he daughter to dump imclone stock market just ahead of a drug rejection the company be develop and he plead guilty to bank fraud by forge a signature on a $ 44 million loan .
the imclone scandal lead to charge against waksal 's friend , martha stewart , last week over she sale of the stock the day before the price collapse .
a pizza delivery help police nab the suspect in the kidnapping of a 9-year-old california girl .
24-year-old enrique alvarez , also know as david cruz , be arrest monday in san jose .
he be expect to be arraign wednesday .
he be charge with kidnapping , felony assault and sexual assault .
the girl be find late sunday at a convenience store in east palo alto .
police say she tell they a pepperoni pizza have be deliver to the house where she be hold .
detective be able to track the order to the house , where they find alvarez hiding in the attic .
and it be a day in court for 16 of the suburban chicago high school girl involve in a violent hazing incident last month .
they be face misdemeanor charge .
mother of two of the student at glenbrook north high school have also be name on misdemeanor charge of supply beer to the teenager .
how could so many people end up in prison for crime they do not commit ?
the story behind the defendant of tulia , texa , be we `` headline timeline . ''
july 23rd , 1999 -- there be a massive drug bust in a predominately african-american neighborhood in tulia .
of the 46 people arrest , 39 be african-american .
the case against they be base on the testimony of undercover officer thoma coleman .
coleman claim he buy drug from the defendant , but offer little or no support evidence .
after the first of several trial end with conviction and harsh sentence , most of the other defendant plead guilty to avoid hard time .
march 17 , 2003 -- with coleman 's credibility under serious attack , new hearing for the tulia defendant get under way .
the hearing be stop when the judge , defense attorney and prosecutor agree that coleman lie under oath and be a racist .
coleman deny do anything wrong .
it take a special act of the texas legislature to clear the way for monday 's release .
but these man and the other catch up in the tulia tragedy be still convict criminal .
now it be up to the appeal court and the board of pardon and parole to officially clear they name .
the bush administration be officially endorse the pro-democracy demonstration in iran .
for a week now , protester have be clash with police and backer of the clerical regime in tehran .
in turn , the iranian government have accuse the bush administration of provide material support to the protester .
the state department spokesman say the demonstration be about iran and iranian , and have nothing to do with the u.s. , but he do make it clear where u.s. sympathy lie .
it look like a annual tradition be build .
80,000 people with a shared love of music converge on a tennessee pasture for three day of good vibes and who know what else .
it be call bonnaroo .
check it out .
bonnaroo be kind of this go example of what the whole jam band community be turn in .
that be what i really like about the jam community .
it be acceptance of improvizational music , dpe pit whatever region or gen re .
it be about the freedom of the music and the freedom of expression .
well , we sell all 80,000 ticket through we web site .
we sell out in 16 day .
i mean , the amazing thing be , we use no traditional advertising .
we put all these band together .
it draw a huge audience .
so the record company and the music business have to take all of these form of music more seriously .
it be like strength in number .
i hope this kind of thing can happen in america , instead of it just be these isolate festival like bonnaroo , it really can happen in 100 city every summer , like the festival do in europe .
my only complaint be the overlap .
you know , as a music lover that i am , there be five act all play at the same time on five different stage that i want to see .
it really come from the actual band and the fact that there be this grassroot follow that be be there , you know , for a long time .
primarily start by the grateful dead , at least the future by the grateful dead .
we will get0 by we will survive we be carry on a tradition that start a long time .
in american music , improvization be what it be always be arp .
it be not just clap and have a good time .
it make you feel a certain kind of love , and hopefully , that translate in the community .
you go out , you hug someone .
you do something good .
you make a better world .
for I , that be music .
we love you .
we
at least ten people have be injure and at least five home have burn in benton harbor since the rioting begin .
police be still look for the arsonist .
but city official say several people have be arrest on civil disobedience charge .
one person be arrest for assault with a deadly weapon .
a father in new york be accuse of drop he baby out of a seven - story apartment window , here 's jordena ginsberg with more from affiliate news-12 westchester .
reporter : please measure the spot where she land after she be throw from a seventh floor window .
the baby fall 80 foot .
these tree branch cushion she fall and save she life .
the baby 's aunt do not want she face show on tv , but tell we she be stunned .
i be glad she be alive .
it be a miracle .
reporter : now , willie william , the little girl 's father be charge with attempt murder .
police say it all start at around 11:30 saturday night when william get into a fight with the baby 's mother jasmine gil yo .
he want to date she again and she be not interested .
cop say he allegedly kidnap she and threaten she but eventually bring she back to she home .
that be when police say he grab they daughter .
the father of the child allegedly pick the baby up , dangedled it out the window , pull the child back in .
then the baby 's mother make a frantic call to the police .
while she be on the phone , he pick up the child again and this time throw she out the window .
then police say the baby 's mother pull out a kitchen knife .
you can hear william say , go ahead , kill I .
at that point the baby 's mother stab he right in the hand .
still bleed , he run downstairs and scoop up the baby , and take the baby to the hospital .
police be on he trail and find william and the baby at at the
a man in new york be face attempt murder charge after allegedly throw he baby seven story to the ground below .
jordeena ginsburg from news 12 westchester have the story .
reporter : police measure the spot where ten month old miana william land after she be throw from a seventh floor window at this apartment building .
the baby fall 80 foot .
these tree branch cushion she fall and save she life .
the baby 's aunt do not want she face show on tv but tell we she be stunned .
i be glad she be alive .
it be a miracle she survive .
reporter : now willie william the girl 's father be qharthd attempt murder .
it all start around 11:30 saturday night , when william get into a fight with the baby 's mother , jasmine .
he want to date she again and she be not interested .
cop say he allegedly kidnap she in he car and threaten she but eventually bring she back to she home .
that be when police say he grab she daughter .
the father allegedly pick the baby up , dangle it out the window of the seventh floor , pull the child back in .
reporter : then the baby 's mother make a frantic call to police .
while she be on the phone , police say william pick up the child again and this time , throw she out the window .
then police say the baby 's mother pull out a kitchen knife opinion on the 911 tape you can hear william tape say `` go ahead kill I . ''
still bleed , he run downstairs and scoop up the baby and take the baby to the hospital .
police be on he trail and find william and the baby at mem norial hospital where
cnn have learn osama bin laden send a private letter to he follower in february , order they to attack the u.s. and its ally .
a month later , u.s. and pakistani troops zero in on bin laden 's location , but he escape .
intelligence source in asia say the message be take by courier from a area along the pakistan/afghanistan border , where bin laden be believe to be hide .
the message be spread to al qaeda member in africa , the middle east and asia .
we begin tonight with a big story out of iraq .
cnn have learn that the cia have obtain critical piece of nuclear technology in iraq .
the part be essential to develop a nuclear bomb program .
they be hide under a rosebush in the back yard of a iraqi scientist in baghdad .
that iraqi scientist hide the component 12 year ago .
he say saddam hussein 's son , qusay , and he then son-in-law order he to do it .
he tell cnn he be tell to keep the part hide so they would be ready when the time come to rebuild iraq 's program .
the part be from a gas centrifuge and can be use for enrich uranium in bomb quality material .
,000 look like there may be some evidence that osama bin laden be alive and still plot .
cnn learn the al qaeda leader send personal letter to key operative in february , order they to attack the united state and its ally .
intelligence source say the correspondence come from the border between pakistan and afghanistan , where osama bin laden be believe to be hide .
courier deliver the letter to location include africa , asia and the middle east .
a month later , u.s. and pakistani force h a lead on osama bin laden , but by the time they move in , he have vanish again .
i just want to update you on kofi annan 's remark .
the u.n. secretary-general do not answer question on iraq as a result .
there be nothing to report on that front .
we have just get word from the ninth circuit court of appeal that that court have now put on hold its ruling ban the pledge of allegiance in public classroom .
school in nine western state would have be prohibit from have student say the pledge start monday .
the stay be grant to give the school district involve in the initial case 90 day to appeal to the u.s. supreme court here in washington .
the appeal court rule last summer , but the phrase under god which be ad ded to the pledge in the 1950s be a unconstitutional endorsement of religion .
we will continue to follow this court ruling as well .
here 's how you be weigh in on we web question of the day .
remember when we have be ask you this question .
who be the number one threat face the u.s. ?
be it saddam hussein , kim jong il or osama bin laden ?
look at the result .
13 % % of you say saddam hussein .
14 % of you who vote say kim jong il , 41 % say osama bin laden .
remember , this be not , not a 13 , 46 , 4 1 , those be the number .
you see they , 13 % for saddam hussein , 46 % for kim jong il , 41 % for osama bin laden .
remember this , ask not a scientific poll ,
it be with wednesday , march 5 200 3 .
i be wolf blitzer in washington .
be the u.s. go to war ?
if you listen to the from 's man it sound like the battle be about to begin , maybe only day from now .
america 's top diplomat lay out the case for war .
secretary of state colin powell act like a prosecutor , point out iraq 's failure .
over at the pentagon , the military leader say that troops be ready to fight right now even as they await word of the president 's order , but there be major opposition today , france , germany and russia plan a showdown at theupup in a bid to stop the u.s. 's war machine and they voice of dissent echo by protestor from australia to egypt to university student right here in the united state .
even the vatican voice concern today .
later this hour i will speak exclusively to cardinal pio laghi , the man dismatch by pope john paul ii to persuade president bush to avoid war , but we begin with report from the unite nation , the pentagon and the white house .
first to chris burn with news on the president and the secretary of state who switch from diplomacy to talk of war .
chris ?
welcome back .
25 minute after the hour .
time for the cafferty file .
good morning .
a crazy world we live in .
the supreme court of the united state uphold the toughest three strike law in the country yesterday .
that be california 's .
they reject challenge to the law of sentence of 25 year to life without parole for a man convict of steal some golf club and 50 year for a man who steal some videotape .
the idea be if you have three felony conviction , you be out of here .
the voter overwhelmingly pass the law in 1994 to offset the liberal and lenient judge to let bad people off with nothing more than a slap of the wrist .
they appeal to the supreme court on behalf of these two people .
currently in california , 7000 people serve 25 to year life sentence under the three strike law .
one-third of they -- not that .
300 of they be in there for thing like petty theft .
25 other state that have the three strike law .
and that bring we to the question .
it be a close vote .
5-4 in the supreme court .
here be the question of the day .
you can e-mail we at am@cnn.com .
it be design to counter the kind of thing that i find in the new york newspaper this morning where a brooklyn woman who scald she 4-year-old to death in a bathtub , walk out of court a free woman yesterday sentence to five year probation .
it take the child three week to die in the hot from -- hospital from the injury it suffer at the hand of its mother and she be free .
five year probation for kill she 4-year-old by scald it to death in the bathtub .
that be the
ten of thousand of college and high school student stage antiwar protest on campus yesterday from coast-to-coast .
california now , high school and college student there skip class to show they opposition to a u.s.-led war with iraq .
the book not bomb demonstration coor naed by the national youth and student peace coalition .
record temperature in the north .
threaten right now to freeze over lake superior surface .
if so , forecaster say it will be the first time there in about two decade .
lake superior , the largest of the five great lake .
it do not look too frozen there .
another story out of belgrade , violence at the highest form .
the serbian prime minister , zoran djindjic have die of he wound after be shoot , a assassination attempt .
apparently , he be on he way to greet reporter at the time outside the main government office there in belgrade .
all this happen about 90 minute ago base on the wire report we be get here .
the word from serbia , zoran djindjic , the prime minister , be dead .
earlier report say he be shoot in the back , as well as the stomach .
the morning papers , because morning papers around the country and around the world be remake they front page to include the elizabeth smart case , and we end with that tonight .
with she family on a day when they miracle finally come true .
she look very , very healthy .
she be grow a lot .
and i be just so absolutely thrill .
i could not believe it .
in fact , i have to take a double take and pull she back away from I and say , `` be it really you ? ''
all of the child out there deserve to come home to they parent the way -- the way elizabeth have come back to we .
and i just hope and pray that congress will quickly pass the amber alert so that those child will have a better chance because they cross the state line and they be out of commission .
and we need to have this here .
we really do .
but i just be so grateful and so thankful .
thank you very much .
reporter : can you describe elizabeth 's demeanor ?
you say she look good , she be bigger , but she be be through this horrible ordeal .
be she still scare ?
she excite ?
happy ?
i do not know .
i mean , it be just -- i be sure she be just thrill to be back .
i just -- such happiness and such love .
and i just hold she , hold she the whole way home .
i just bring she little brother william in .
and as william and she see each other , it be such a wonderful reunion for they to just hug , and they -- he would hug she and look at she and hug she and look at she .
and could not believe , i think , as a 4-year-old now that he sister be home .
with the darkness that surround we in these time of the possibility of war that could be come upon we and a miracle that have be bring to we , a incredible miracle that have be bring to we family , word can not express how grateful we be for the prayer around the world .
do miracle still exist ?
and the answer be yes .
and we have elizabeth back .
this neighborhood , the federal height neighborhood , everybody be be rip up , everybody 's help , everybody 's pray to do whatever they can .
we thank god for all the searcher , for all the people .
in the history of the world i do not think a little girl 's be pray for more than elizabeth smart .
and we thank you for answer those prayer .
thank you .
it be a nice day to have this job .
we will see you tomorrow , 10:00 eastern time .
-- caption by vitac -- www.vitac.com ... a ceo be about to announce employee of the year .
earlier , several go-getter prepare to accept they award .
... and when i begin this journey ... ... when i start this journey ... I ?
... i have no idea i would
that she younger sister , mary katherine , be the one who go to she father and say , `` dad , i think i know who do this . ''
but it take some four month before they be able to get a picture and identify the picture as this brian david mitchell and then he wife , wanda barzee .
the other question , of course , be why do not elizabeth smart try to escae ?
be there opportunity perhaps that she might ab vible to -- able to get away from she abductor ?
the police be say she be abducted by knife point and be a opportunity and may have be some kind of fear factor go on .
we be see a lot locally here some photograph that be come out that show the three , that show mitchell , he wife , and who they believe to be elizabeth smart at a party in september .
there be time perhaps they be in a park somewhere in salt lake city completely robe in these veil and robe so you could not see she face .
there be a lot of question come out about why she could not get away from they , that remain to be answer .
the police be go to be hold a press conference later today .
we be hope to get more detail about that .
you have hear the old say , the best offense be a good defense ?
perhaps with that in mind , the nation 's threat level back at orange , or high , to discourage and thwart potential terrorist attack .
what do this mean if you be travel you might ask .
to cnn 's patty davi at reagan national airport .
what be traveler to do and , for that matter , not to do ?
reporter : mile , what that mean be tighter security at airport across the country .
and that could potentially slow you down .
some thing you may want to do be , first all , just get here a little bit early .
now , homeland security chief tom ridge describe some of those new security measure on top of the one that be already in place .
begin the training for the pilot in the cockpit with firearm .
then you have get the harden cockpit door .
you have training for the flight attendant .
you have more federal air marshal .
you come outside the airline -- the airplane itself and you have technology , 100 % inspection of baggage .
you have new trained inspector for passenger .
you enhance airport security outside the perimeter .
there will be additional random inspection of vehicle and potentially , depend on the airport , some limitation of indegree and egress into the airport .
reporter : airport be currently
back to something kelly wallace say .
she be talk about the somewhat blase attitude of israelis .
we be lack at the front page of the jerusalem post the other day .
the big banner headline that day big and bold , be president bush issue ultimatum .
on the side column , as a afterthought , sit tense tell to carry gas mask wherever they go .
it give you a sense of , perhaps what 50 year of tension and war will do to you mentality .
but it do also say that the israeli be a bit more blase , if that be a fair word for it , than perhaps we be .
president bush , when he talk earlier to reporter , mention that this effort be a effort , this war be a effort to make the homeland , we homeland , more secure .
john king , that whole issue of homeland security must be so much on the mind of so many government official , give the level of the terror alert today .
reporter : so far , so good be the assessment we be get from senior administration official as they try to track what they worry about most .
as we have the strike overseas throughout iraq , there will be retaliatory terror strike , either by organize terrorist network or sympathetic terrorist or people against the united state in this country .
so far , so good .
no plan , we be tell , to raise the threat level , though it be already at orange , which be high .
so microsoft of the president 's business have be behind the scene today .
he be the most senior of about a handful of senior administration official , include the vice president and the secretary of state .
the national security advisor fan out , we be tell in phone call to more than three dozen world leader offer they a update on what be go on .
but we do here hear from the president a bit earlier today .
we see baghdad , a capitol under siege .
mr. bush in the cabinet room at the white house to portray a different image , try to show in washington , it be business as usual , urgent business as , but still business as usual with secretary of defense rumsfeld on one side , secretary of state powell on the other .
the president offer a brief statement in the cabinet room .
call my cabinet together to review we strategy , to make the world more peaceful , to make we country more secure .
to make the life of we citizen as healthy and as prosperous as possible .
we hear from secretary rumsfeld who brief we on the early stage of the war .
there be no question we have set the finest of we citizen into harm 's way .
they perform with great skill and great bravery .
we thank they .
we thank they love one .
we appreciate they sacrifice .
we hear from secretary powell who brief we on the ever-growing coalition of the willing , nation who support we deep desire for peace and freedom .
over 40 nation now support we effort .
we be grateful for they determination .
we appreciate they vision , and we welcome they support .
as well , we discuss the need to make sure we have plan in place to encourage economic vitality and growth .
we will continue to push for a medicare system compassionate for you senior .
we care deeply about the fact that some child in we society can not read .
we want the best of education for every citizen in america .
this cabinet be confident about the future of we country .
we be confident we can achieve we objective .
i be grateful for they service to they country .
thank you all .
reporter : so even at the very early stage of a define moment of bush presidency , the president try to make the case he eye and especially the eye of he cabinet still on the domestic affair of the united state as the early prosecution of the war continue .
one thing the president say that will be the point of contention around the world , the president call it a ever-growing coalition of 40 country .
that be handful more nation that be actively involve in the coalition he father assemble 12 year ago for the persian gulf war , but there be a significant difference , of course .
in this coalition , it ip the united state do the overwhelming load of the fighting .
british force on the ground , australian troops schedule to take part , perhaps in some way .
in the last gulf war , you have arab force on the ground .
the egyptian , syrian , saudi , qatari take up arm to expel the iraqi armiy kuwait .
no such participation this time around .
abc the president say , this be a grow coalition , this be one of the big geo political debate go on around the world as the president
we be watch activity in baghdad .
while we do , we want to tell you marine battle for control of the bridge in the southern city of nasiriyah face stiff resistance from iraqi paramilitary group today .
for some perspective , let 's turn to mile o'brien with retired air force general don shepperd .
thank you very much .
if you be go to fight on the ground , you have to encounter bridge somewhere along the way .
a lot of bridge between where the 3 7 cavalry and the rest of the u.s. force be now and they ultimate destination , downtown baghdad .
we have the city lay out for you here .
how many bridge in this city alone ?
in this map we have right here , 13 major bridge in downtown baghdad , include the expressway bridge over here .
three bridge here attach east baghdad to west baghdad and the palace area .
this be one technique , one possible way u.s. force might seize a bridge , a bridge that might be defend by iraqis .
let 's look at the animation .
typical scenario there .
it do not really matter for this scenario that we be lay out here .
this would be represent m1-a1 tank come towards the bridge firing .
you have to bundle up and line up to go across that bridge .
make it vulnerable to fire from the other side .
potentially chemical weapon , too .
as we turn the other direction , what you will see be these iraqi tank that be kind of fortify there .
they have burn in front of they .
artillery behind they firing back .
and then they there go the smoke screen .
the idea of the smoke screen be to obscure the oncoming force fire ing at you from be able to see .
it do not work , though .
it work both way .
it obscure you but also obscure they .
here be a f-16 .
he come in and want to identify he target and he be get a big -- can not see through the smoke .
we have get some technique we be go to show you .
somewhere near we can put down special
on we go in the meantime .
again , today , there be disturbing hint , and we underscore hint here , that coalition force may soon face a attack use chemical weapon .
yesterday the story center on intelligence regard enemy intention .
today the evidence be somewhat more tangible .
report for we , cnn 's david ensor .
reporter : the evidence be accumulate that iraq may be plan to use chemical weapon .
gas mask turn up in abandon trench .
in nasiriyah in a building mark as a hospital u.s. marine find weapon , atropine antidote kit , and that be not all .
they find over 3,000 chemical suit and gas mask as well as a number of iraqi military uniform .
reporter : the finding be heighten concern among coalition force approach baghdad since , as the iraqis should know , u.s. and british force do not use chemical weapon .
u.s. official say some intelligence indicate a red line may have be draw around the capital with republican guard unit order to use chemical weapon once u.s. and ally troops cross it .
there be also intelligence , official say , suggest republican guard unit have be issue artillery shell contain chemical agent .
there have be intelligence scrap , who know how accurate they be , chatter in the system , that suggest that the closer that coalition force get to baghdad and tikrit the greater the likelihood and that some command and control arrangement have be put in place .
reporter : in baghdad deputy prime minister tariq aziz repeat he government 's stand -- it do not have any kind of weapon of mass destruction .
translator : when they start to talk about the weapon of mass destruction , we know and we always know that that be fabrication and line .
reporter : expert say saddam hussein 's force will likely try to hold out in baghdad for as long as possible without use the weapon he government insist it do not have , hope to build international pressure on the u.s. and britain to back down .
in that sense any use of chemical weapon would be counterproductive to saddam , because it would only galvanize international
for some american who find themselves spend hour on end watch television coverage of the war , it can be hard to break away .
that be especially true if you have a love one in the war zone .
but as we candy crowley remind we , life do and must go on .
reporter : spring-time and a game of catch on the washington mall .
a gentle breeze and a good meal beside the pacific ocean .
that other place , the one on tv all the time , might as well be on another planet .
and that may be the point .
we happen to be at a very nice spot by the beach where this be a chance for people to get away from cnn coverage , everything , and kind of relax reporter : time to redefine normal again , which on the homefront now seem to mean life as you live it only weirder .
i be amaze at how unaffected i be by thing , how i be still come to work and do the same thing and go for a walk in the morning .
and it just seem so strange to I that it be almost a parallel universe .
more than 70 percent of american say they be sad about the war .
the barber at hinsville georgia larry that .
they seem more depressed .
a lot of they afraid they be go to lose they job , you know , the economy be down and all kind of stuff .
life on the homefront seem the same at farmer 's market in lo angele , but it be more angst ridden .
i do not think it be affect we business as much as i be worry that it would , but you never know it be go to happen .
if there be any kind of terrorism that happen here , i think that would definitely put a damper on everything .
nationwide , people shop less in the first week of the war .
sale fall 2 percent from the previous week .
air travel have fall 10 mer since the war begin and some hotel chain say cancellation be up .
60 percent of the people say they be watch the war .
my boyfriend have be watch the tv like every single day , every time it come on , he be watch it .
maybe fewer people be shon because they be watch tv .
maybe fewer be fly because they worry about terrorism or they worry about what the war will do to the economy or maybe it be everything .
there be no one economic statistics to point to a downturn , it be a overall feeling , a psychological feeling that everything be freeze , everything be on hold .
consumer be not spend , people be not buy stock , everything be
tense of thousand of additional u.s. troops be get ready to join coalition force fight the war in iraq .
the first departure be already underway at fort hood texa .
cnn 's jamie kolbe be there report , jamie on these family who be say good-bye to they love one .
reporter : and this be a military town , judy and little by little we be see these soldier head out .
in a strange way and this may sound unusual , there be a little sense of relief because these soldier be set to leave in january and now they get second deployment order , the delay , of course , the inability to get access to turkey , but along the way , the 4th infantry division be one seep in tradition and there be a real sense of pride among the soldier , 250 of which leave yesterday , over the course of the week 12,000 will be leave from here .
another 4,000 from fort carson in colorado and it date back to world war i. they equipment that leave on january be now on a ship on its way south through the suez canal and it be interesting to note some of the equipment that be be hold up for the last couple of month , there be some 5 helicopter , 200 tank as well as 150 bradley infantry fight vehicle .
these be highly train soldier .
they be ready to go .
they be happy to be finally able to come and back up the first wave of troops that leave from here .
they mission be very broad , judy to deploy anywhere in the world in support of national strategy .
they doan know what they will be do .
they will learn that once they get there they first stop will be to central command , they will receive more specific order .
they will be join by the first cavalry .
they have receive deployment order .
they have not yet be tell to make final arrangement .
they all tell I , the soldier you talk to and also some of the information people here at fort hood , they train like they fight .
they be ready .
they be determine and they be very patriotic in support of we country .
they be go over there to do a mission they believe in and as we say , 250 leave yesterday .
they be armedd with they m-16 , they be concern .
they family be here to see they off , but they be determine to return though it be interesting to note that many of they , so many with young child have tell they kid that mom or dad could be away for as long as a year .
judy ?
it be -- i do not think we can say it often enough , jamie .
it be get
today 's battle include picture of the oil field fire in southern iraq .
firefighter continue they work at the ramallah oil field .
official say they cap one blaze , leave only two well still burn out of 500 oil field in the area .
they say some iraqi who work in the field before the war already be ask for they job back .
and these picture show iraqis run for cover just before u.s. plane drop a bomb near northern iraq .
just as they disappear over the ridge , you can hear the plane and the explosion and then you see the cloud .
ask any american marine and they will tell you they will do anything possible to recover the body of fall comrade .
that grim task be carry out by marine engage in the fierce battle for the city of nasiriyah nasiriyah .
aless so vinci be there with the marine .
usairway be fly its way out of bankruptcy .
the company which lose nearly $ 4 billion over the past two year have cut its annual cost by nearly $ 2 billion .
most of that be save by cut employee wages and benefit .
the dow be down .
you see there , just about almost 140 point .
nasdaq down 20 and the s & p be down , as well .
so the market be continue they negative trend from last week .
we will keep we i on that .
come up right here , next hour on live from , terror tactic on the battlefield .
be it a taste of more to come in iraq ?
we will talk with a terror expert about that , and iraqi deserter on the northern front .
ben wedeman have they story why they be no longer fight for saddam hussein and don shepperd be go to answer some of you question as he look at the battle hot spot .
now let 's go back to wolf blitzer in kuwait city for more special coverage of the war in iraq .
we be get late word tonight that geraldo rivera may not be be kick out of iraq after all .
originally the central command say the veteran fox news correspond be be expel because he compromise the location of the unit he be be embed with .
now a spokesman from the central command be say and i be quote `` frankly , we have bigger and more important thing to do . ''
during a live broadcast geraldo draw a map in the sand show the location of the unit in relation to baghdad .
say he be not aware he be be expel but say if so , it be because some bitter former colleague of he at msnbc blow the whistle on he .
it sound to I like some rat at my former network , nbc , be spread some lie about I .
you know , they can not compete fair and square on the battlefield so they be try to stab I in the back .
it be not first time .
the central command on the other hand say rivera be be kick out of iraq because `` he give away the big picture stuff . ''
all of this now under review , whether or not geraldo stay or go .
we will continue to monitor that front on the store yix another veteran war correspondent be be fire for he controversial conduct in iraq .
nbc be terminate freelancer reporter peter arnett for statement he make to the iraqi media .
we show you the statement yesterday .
he say the coalition 's first war plan have fail because of iraqi resistance .
today he appear on on nbc 's `` today '' show and say he be sorry .
i want to apologize to the american people for clearly make a misjudgment over the weekend by give a interview to iraqi television .
now , i say in that interview essentially what we all know about the war , there have be delay in implement policy , there have be surprise .
but clearly by give that interview to iraqi television , i create a firestorm in the united state .
and for that i be truly sorry .
arnett have be cover the war for national geographic , which also fire he as tv report be give exclusively to nbc and msnbc .
late word from london that the tabloid the daily mirror just hire peter arnett to be its correspondent in baghdad .
but the question remain do peter arnett and geraldo rivera cross the line ?
or be they within they rights as reporter ?
we pose that question to michael wolf , a contribute editor for `` new york '' magazine , a media columnist , a important article in the new issue of `` new york . ''
he be join we now live from qatar .
what do you say to the question , michael ?
well , you know , i think i be
meanwhile , as war be fight a world away , federal , state and local authority face they own battle keep american safe at home .
president bush say yesterday the threat of domestic terrorism remain high .
the die regime if iraq may try to bring terror to we shore shore .
other part of the global terror network may view this as a moment to strike , think that we be distract .
they be wrong .
what still need to be do to keep american safe at home , steven berle tack that issue in `` after how america confront the september 12th era . ''
congratulation .
thank you .
what come out yesterday , on two best-seller list .
so far , so good .
you have spend over a year investigate the subject .
you have unprecedented access not only to secretary ridge but the attorney general and other player in this post-september 11th environment .
how vulnerable do we continue to be ?
well , quite vulnerable in some place and yet we have make great stride .
the access i have be not only at top but the people who be on the front line .
and this be really the behind the scene story of everything they have be do to make this country safer .
i think we decide on the morning of september 12th we be not go to be victim , we be not just go to sit there .
we be go to try to do something .
we be not just go to say we be lucky we do not get attack today .
in the port , at the airport , even with we food supply , we have take all kind of step .
but we be vulnerable .
we be vulnerable right out on the street here .
we be vulnerable in mass transit system because we can not involve this problem infin any lu we have make good stride in the last we be .
that be the story i try to to tell about the man and woman who have bring we this point .
can the
a airport in key west , florida , today become the setting of what appear to be a desperate attempt to enter the u.s. by a cuban national .
the man be arrest there after authority say he hijack a cuban plane use what be report to be grenade , order the pilot to fly to florida .
the hijacker get off the plane wear a jacket that say , america across the back .
and a small child cling to he leg .
also ahead , the anatomy of a rescue , just a couple of hour ago , rescue p.o.w. jessica lynch arrive at the ramstein air base in germany for medical treatment .
a little later we will speak with she family and talk a closer look at the daring operation that produce she safe recovery , but first the push into baghdad .
coalition field commander say u.s. troops be now within 15 mile of the iraqi capital .
they say they force today with the iraqi republican guard unit as part of a protwo-pronged advance on the city .
u.s. troops could be in baghdad southern outskirts by early thursday .
however , the pentagon be down play the idea that a invasion of baghdad be imminent .
for the second straight day , iraqi television meanwhile have broadcast a statement from the iraqi president saddam hussein .
however , despite the appearance of saddam hussein in and what be say to be new fattage , the statement itself be read by a iraqi news anchor wear a military uniform .
u.s. official say they be not sure whether the iraqi president be still alive .
regardless , the statement praise iraqi who have fight coalition force .
it be say to be saddam hussein 's response to a letter from he niece .
iraqi force be overwhelm and could soon collapse .
jessica lynch say she can not wait to get home to west virginia .
the 19-year-old army private speak to she parent yesterday pie phone from a hospital in germany .
greg lynch say that when he talk to he daughter she have not eat in eight day and be quite hungry .
the washington post be report she shoot several iraqi soldier before she be capture and she be shoot herself , too .
come up on we next hour , u.s. force edge toward the outskirts of baghdad and we will tell you what kind of resistance they be fate from saddam hussein 's elite republican guard .
that be the very joyous town of palestine , west virginia , on the news that jessica lynch be eventually go to come home .
what a brave young woman .
do you hear about the injury she sustain .
do you hear about the firing she do .
she be go to fight to the death .
she be capture but she be one tough cookie , apparently .
god bless here .
and she be go to be all right , it look like .
we have some other item , voice of america they be call she on american morning .
home front response to the ongoing war in iraq .
we begin in oklahoma , a story of sacrifice in wartime .
cass apd ra give birth to she first daughter .
alexis jane denise , but without she husband .
john scottsdale be on the front line in iraq .
i do not know what to do .
since she husband could not be there for alexis ' birth .
he parent have step in to help with they new granddaughter and it look as though mother and daughter be do well .
voice of america on a morning where it look like thing gring well for the coalition member .
do you hear the family member of jessica lynch yesterday .
they say it be a miraculous thing .
it be the first american prisoner of war ever rescue since world war ii .
they have try these thing before , but never with the success .
i guess miracle be not too strong a word .
it be a great word .
when you hear she father talk .
welcome jeffrey to be in .
he think it
all right .
just about 25 minute long in that press conference there at nato headquarters in brussels .
he mention a headline a short time ago .
u.s. force move in on the airport at saddam hussein international airport , 12 mile west of the city 's center .
colin powell say a end will come soon and toward the end , this regime will be finish .
also a question there about the unite nation .
a question about nato about what role these two organization may play in rebuild iraq .
colin powell say the u.n. do have a role to play , what role that be remain to be see .
there be also one other moment there when you hear a woman ask about the safety of she husband right now .
that woman , we believe s marry to one of two journalist who disappear in iraq almost two week ago , both work other for the network , itn .
we have hear that perhaps both be be hold in basra , possibly in a hospital , but there be no way for we to confirm they whereabouts , but obviously a lot of concern from this woman as to where whereabouts of she husband and he health .
walt roger be back with we .
we have be in and out now for almost two hour .
what be happen with you and the 7th cav as we continue to watch you image by way of video phone and the giant m1-a1 tank .
walt , good evening again .
bombardment of baghdad continue tonight and over the past 20 minute , explosion rock baghdad , central baghdad southern baghdad , the outskirts of baghdad , and importantly , as the coalition force , principally u.s. army force , move against saddam hussein international airport -- which be about ten mile outside the center of baghdad -- those explosion be intensify .
if we may again go to the wide screen of what appear to I to be abu dhabi television that be provide this picture , 3:20 a.m. in baghdad , live picture again .
that it be very difficult to discern whether or not that be , in point of fact , the missile that we have become accustomed to striking baghdad and its environs , or whether it be the large 2,000 pound jdam bomb that have be striking target sclect by the coalition in baghdad , or whether these flash now represent artillery barrage as fight continue to take control of the -- to take control of saddam international airport .
again , correspondent , we correspondent with the -- embedded with these force , with they in the field , say in some case they can see the light of the skyline of baghdad .
over the course of the past two week , since this war begin , something like 23,000 coalition sortie have be fly , and over the course of the past 24 hour , 1,900 sortie fly .
and we be tell that , of those , 850 be strike sortie , motor vehicle most of those direct against the republican guard .
as you know , the republican guard just outside baghdad to defend the city and saddam hussein 's regime , in principal .
two of those division absolutely devastate , destroy .
the so-called medina division , and the baghdad division .
the baghdad division , of course , get its name from the fact that it be the republican guard division designate to defend principally baghdad .
four other division we be tell have also be hit very , very very hard and be principally try to reinforce unit va also be hit very hard .
so we be see a lot of what some of the military official be call a method that do not seem to be direct by one person from the center of baghdad .
and that raise question , question that have be in front of we since that first strike on march 19th against the location that the cia military intelligence thought be a place where saddam hussein , perhaps he son , be .
that preemptive strike they put , i think somewhat elegantly , try to strike at the head of the snake .
new explosion rock part of baghdad tonight .
we will continue to monitor that .
we , of course , will bring the word to you just as soon as the army and coalition force do take control of saddam hussein international airport , just on the outskirts of baghdad .
in southern iraq today , british force also move closer to the center of the second largest city in iraq , basra .
they capture a iraqi base in a unused factory in the southern suburb of that city .
tim hewart of itn report .
these be the latest development in the war on iraq .
the pentagon tonight say coalition troops have reach baghdad international airport .
troops be involve in heavy fighting with iraqi force .
the pentagon say the strategy be to seize key objective in and around baghdad .
report suggest airport building have be attack , but runway remain operational .
tonight , a series of large explosion rock central baghdad , as we have be report to you over the course of this hour .
coalition aircraft be hear fly overhead .
it be not clear what the target be .
certainly , some of they near and around saddam hussein international airport although there have be strike in central baghdad as well .
in the course of the past hour .
the army 's 3rd infantry division 1st marine division , lead the assault against baghdad .
the 3rd infantry be approach from the southwest , the 1st marine from the southeast .
armored force destroy dozen of iraqi tank and personnel carrier in they advance on baghdad .
iraqi force use soviet-era tank .
they stand no chance against the m1 abram tank use by army and marine .
central command have determine that baghdad airport be unusable for normal air operation .
the airport , for the most part , be now under u.s. control .
military official will not say whether damage to the runway be go to limit operation there , but they know there be underground bunker there and some other area that may be of use .
centcom also say 2500 republican guard troops have surrender to u.s. marine between kut and baghdad .
military official say the baghdad republican guard division be no longer a effective fight force .
we turn now to a iraqi -- first of all , before we tell you about this story , we be go to , these be live picture from baghdad .
there be be some activity in the last few moment .
look like tracer fire we be look at , anti-aircraft gun firing at what they sense be some sort of threat come from the sky .
baghdad have have sporadic episode of this tonight .
no major explosion we be aware of , but just , apparently , in the last few moment , there have be activity .
you can see it there just now .
we have be report , the city have begin to see its electricity turn back on .
we do not know that all ofist be back , but at least some of it be .
we also know that 12 mile southwest of the city , coalition force remain largely in control of what be formerly saddam hussein international airport , now rename by the coalition baghdad international airport .
but the coalition be quick to point out that they do not have control of the area immediately surround the airport .
again , this be -- these be live picture of baghdad , where it be well into the night .
we be , of course , go to keep monitor the situation there and bring you up to speed on anything we learn .
walt rodger , 3-7th cavalry say iraqi missile hit operation center for 2nd brigade 3rd infantry zrig south baghdad , at least four dead , two soldier and two journalist .
other report at least 15 be wound .
some of they critically , hope to get walt up in a couple minute to get more information on what be happen there .
look at like picture of heir force one now on the ground at a royal air force base outside of belfast , northern ireland .
it be call aldergrove , just outside belfast .
the president of the united state come for a brief two-day summit with the british prime minister tony blair .
they will be talk about a postwar iraq among other important subject .
they will also have a opportunity to review the so-called road map for israeli/palestinian peace negotiation to get off the ground .
they also want to review what the status be of northern ireland right now as that peace process seem to be take hold .
be relatively quiet in northern ireland over the past few year .
this be the third time in as many week that president bush and prime minister blair will be sit down to review station , war strategy , as they go forward together .
go forward as close ally in try to help put together a new iraq .
there be some significant difference in they strategy , include what role precisely the unite nation should have in determine the future of iraq .
they will try to thrash all of that out .
you be look at the picture of air force one taxi in on the tarmac , get ready for the president .
as we watch this picture of the air force one get into this airport i want to bring in we military analyst general dan crisman to go over what happen happen in baghdad .
seem pretty far away from belfast right now , general .
but decision that these two leader make could have a significant impact on the future of iraq .
first of all , general , we will keep this picture up of air force one , talk about what you sense be happen on the street of baghdad right now .
wolf , it be clearly the final phase .
the engame which be unfoaling right now .
i think it be very significant not only in baghdad but basra itself .
you have coalition force there in some strength .
apparently three ba talian of the u.s. 3rd division in baghdad three coalition asset , three huge battle group in basra itself which the u.k. have there , what they have develop here , wolf , over the last several week i very clear and increasingly clear intelligence as to what the final remnant of the regime leadership be in term of where they be embed in the city .
what they be do be go in now , very carefully , obviously some symbolic raid against palace .
but the more important presence be to go after what intelligence deliver and that be where these key leader be located .
they be go to be defend fanatically but intelligence be so crucial from aerial platform and special op personnel to give the three asset the intel which they need to close with and eliminate final remnant of the regime in those city .
this be a very important final phase here , wolf , and it look like the closure be come here now more rapidly than we anticipate .
as we continue to watch air force one , now on the ground outside belfast , northern ireland , we will be watch president bush emerge from the plane momentarily .
we will continue to have live coverage of that .
when walter rodger , we embedded reporter with the 3-7th cavalry say three battalion of troops be on the ground , inside baghdad itself , have take up position they be go to spend the night there presumably , how many soldier be we talk about right now ?
between 700 and 1,000 .
the task force really , wolf be probably build around the m-2 bradley the basic infantry fighting vehicle .
it be the equipment of choice for a task force like this to go into baghdad .
it be cannon , it be ability to implace troops and fire through the firing port in that bradley vehicle to take they in under protection .
it be a very , very important piece of equipment .
these be probably mechanize heavy task force that have overhead aerial platform to provide direct support .
it be significant the degradation of the iraqi air defens have allow a-10 , predator , u-s , other asset to hover and loiter and provide the overhead protection to these task
welcome back n case you be just tuning in , we top story this hour , the discovery of suspect chemical weapon material at a agricultural complex in central iraq .
troops from the u.s. army 's 101st airborne division go to the site on friday , find a number of large drum bury in bunker .
initial test be inconclusive .
the general benjamin frankly of the 101st say today a more sophisticated test indicate the presence of nerve and blister agent .
he say that type of test that be require sometimes show false-positive and further testing will be do to determine whether the material be indeed nonweaponized chemical agent or perhaps simply pesticide .
general frankly say it be hard to believe u.n. inspector would have find the facility hide as deeply as it be near the euphrate river .
we will be much more on this develop story come up in a few minute .
for the latest , though , on the air war , cnn 's gary tuchman be join we now live from a air base not far from iraq .
what be happen there tonight , gary ?
reporter : well , wolf , the air force be continue its 24-hour air coverage over baghdad .
there will always be multiple warplane , fighter
a live picture of the president unite state landing at a air field in northern ireland .
once he get out of the helicopter he will transfer to air force one to come home after a 20-hour visit with the prime minister of great britain .
they talk about a lot of thing , about what peace in the middle east could look like , what post-war iraq could look like .
they talk about problem in northern ireland .
we be go to pause for a second to see if we see the president hop off this chopper .
as you probably know , the prime minister of the great britain have be under great pressure at home and much of europe to support give the unite nation a very strong role in stabilize iraq .
the white house have signal consistently it want the united state and great britain to create a lead role .
we learn from john king , travel with the president , that the new iraq run neither by u.s. / british coalition or unite nation , but by the iraqi people .
that some of what the prime minister and president share with reporter at news conference follow they meeting .
the president go on to say that a interim authority compose of iraq gr inside and outside the country will run iraq until a permanent government can be establish .
do you want to hang with the shot ?
okay , we be go to stay with this shot .
we will talk more about what the two leader discuss at the joint news conference follow they series of meeting .
they really want to let folk who have any concern about what the u.n. involvement might be to not worry .
they say there will definitely be some kind of role for the unite nation , they think it be very important for the european nation to be on board with the plan , but once again , they very much view the future of iraq as be that in iraqi hand .
the president greet a number of dignitary as he get ready here to board air force one on he way home .
a little earlier this morning , i speak with a iraqi dissident who teach at write extensively on the middle east .
he write a book call the republic of fear .
the politics of modern iraq .
and i ask he about the news that saddam hussein be target in yesterday 's strike and how iraqi would react if saddam be kill .
* * hamburg , germany .
central command say the iraqis shot down a a-10 tank killer today .
official report that the plane be apparently down with a surface to air missile .
it happen near the baghdad airport which be in u.s. hand .
pilot say they be do well .
all right .
u.s. marine enter southeastern baghdad today and find dozen of chemical suit mask and atropine injecter .
they find it at a industrial complex .
material have be haiftly abandon .
the iraqi government report 1252 civilian have be kill in the war .
these figure come to we from abu dhabi television .
they can not be verify by cnn .
the iraqi government have not release the information or military casualty at all .
now back to wolf blitzer and we continue coverage of the war in iraq .
2:58 , a.m. , explosion report around the palestine hotel where international journalist be stay .
a u.s. tank shell the hotel in response to sniper fire .
the blast kill two cameraman , one from spanish tv , another from reuter .
three reuter journalist be kill .
5:33 a.m. , martin savidge say the marine have find chemical protection suit and antidote for chemical weapon in a field beside a industrial complex in southeast baghdad .
nearby they find abandon weapon and artillery case , which they demolish .
7:00 a.m. , u.s. central command say the coalition may never know if iraqi president saddam hussein survive a u.s. air strike yesterday .
a b-1 bomber drop four 2,000-pound bomb on a building in a residential area of baghdad after get intelligence report senior official be meet there , possibly include saddam hussein and he son .
brigadier general vince brook confirm a usa-10 warthog aircraft be shoot down by a iraqi missile today .
the pilot eject and be rescue .
a air force pilot be back at he base after a close call .
military official say a missile hit he warthog and he be force to eject .
cnn 's gary tuchman be live near the iraqi border with detail on the mission and the pilot be rescue .
gary ?
reporter : wolf , hello to you .
it be a very tense and nerve-racking day for the pilot who be station at this base near the iraqi border .
he fly one of the a-10s behind I , the warthog attack plane .
take it out early this morning .
here be what happen to he .
he be go on a mission south of baghdad when he be close to he target area , all of a sudden he hear a noise .
turn out it be a iraqi missile , a very likely a shoulder fire missile that hit he aircraft .
he realize the plane be go to crash so he eject .
all these plane have ejection seat .
the pilot carry parachute .
eject land in the desert south of baghdad and then he be rescue by u.s. army ground troops who be in the area .
the pilot , whose name have not be release , be bring back to this base .
he be in good condition with the 172nd fire squadron which be base in battle creek , michigan .
but he be a very lucky man .
he be with two other a-10 fly along with he .
they , two , be hit .
one come back to the base .
the other we have a picture of .
it land at a base control by the coalition .
that particular a-10 be hit in the right engine .
the pilot also be able to make a safe landing and neither of those pilot be hurt .
those be three plane hit today .
another a-10 warthog be hit here today .
that pilot be hit by at least one missile and some artillery .
we have video of that plane .
that plane have a role in one of the engine .
stabilizer in the back of the plane .
the pilot lose all flight control as she be fly back .
think about eject .
decide she could make it back safely .
she come back to this base near the border of iraq and it be be describe as a heroic landing after she be strike by artillery missile .
course , we just hear from jamie mcintyre about the f-15 e strike eagle .
authority
a federal appeal court will decide how long dirty bomb suspect jose padilla can be retain and whether he can meet with attorney .
the u.s. attorney say padilla be a enemy combattant and not entitle to counsel .
he be accuse of attempt to ignite a dirty bomb in this country .
until southern iraq , another symbol of saddam hussein 's regime be in ruin tonight .
saddam hussein 's private yacht and quite a yacht it be or be .
it be hit by coalition bomb and missile and then burn and loot by iraqis .
the boat be one of the world 's most luxurious yacht when it be launch some 20 year ago .
now the scorch hulk float aimlessly in the arab waterway next to basra 's dock yard .
people in baghdad celebrate the fall of a leader whose fate be unknown tonight .
we will be talk with a expert on saddam hussein , author andrew coburn about whether saddam hussein be dead or alive and where in the world be he .
also , the long journey of the marine who cover the statue of saddam hussein with a american flag .
bill tucker will have a special report on the life of marine corporal edward chin .
and actress jane fonda be now question freedom of the united state .
and she have a few thought about ignorance .
so do we .
stay with we .
now that saddam hussein 's regime have fall be democracy the answer to iraq and its people .
in he book , fareed zakar erick a join we now to talk about democracy and iraq 's future .
good to see you .
thank you , paula .
good to see you on a different network for a change .
that be what happen when you sell book .
i know .
let 's talk about what barbara starr be report from the pentagon .
she say there be a acknowledgment from those official that there be not enough ground troops in place and particularly in baghdad to control what we nic robertson be say be a stage of anarchy in some part of iraq .
do you think the administration underestimate the day after ?
i think because the day after come so fast and so suddenly in way .
i think that there be be a pattern here not just with this administration , but over the last ten year , bosnia , kosovo , afghanistan , where we do not quite recognize when the old order collapse , you very quickly have to rush in and fill it with some kind of new order .
in the short-term , that be go to have to mean the american military .
but the key question , which i try to address in the book , be what do you do after that ?
what kind of authority do you create in a society go through this kind of transition .
and how do you know that the local iraqi citizen will make up this government or , in fact , interested in democracy ?
there be no proof of that .
well , the key here be the only way to get that kind of legitimate government to have it look good be to hold election .
but if you hold election , you stop the whole process of build a rule of law , create court , create administration .
we have see in the past in bosnia for example , you hold election and all of the old ethnic thug get into power because they have organization and they have money and they stop the process of genuine building of democracy .
there be this tension here which be the only way to make this look good be in some way get legitimate iraqi authority , but the faster you get that , the more likely you stop this process .
so what do you think of this interim government ?
you get deputy defense secretary paul wolfowitz say that american and british military force would play a lead role in set up a iraqi government and then later draw civilian into the process .
be that go to work ?
i think it will work if it be truly broad-based and truly consensual , try and include all different people and include they in create a constitution which would take a few year .
what i point out be the play where you have have quick transition
a michigan teen who disappear with a convict killer and go on a three-week oddysey be in trouble with the law tonight .
prosecutor charge lindsey ryan with steal firearm from she parent ' home .
police catch up with the two in california .
56-year-old forry drake have be charge with interstate transport of a minor .
we try to bring you the work of still photographer who be apply they trade in iraq these day .
tonight patrick baa from afp look at what he be do this week .
it be clear he have two of the thing you need to be a photo photojournalist .
a great eye and nose for where the news be .
i be lebanese bear .
i grow up in war zone .
it be like my life .
i be the only one during this conflict who have picture of republican guard and it be true luck because i be drive northwest of baghdad and i bump into these guy go around the capital .
we recognize they because of they uniform .
very close to the u.s. marine uniform .
i do not see fear in they eye .
i do not feel any i do not realize what the fire power be .
it be a american tank that have techmy call problem .
have to stop a attack south of baghdad .
they really believe on the tank .
i be take picture .
the reporter be with I .
want to go in .
i say , no .
while
in be also big celebration at ft. hood , texa , home base to two other p.o.w.s , david william and ronald young .
those pilot be capture on march 24th , after they apache helicopter go down in iraqi territory .
today , they family be learn new and actually harrowing detail about the day after they capture .
cnn national correspondent susan candiotti be with the young family in georgia , jamie cole by at ft. hood , texa , where she speak to william ' wife michelle .
susan , why do not we start with you ?
reporter : hello , judy .
during a brief phone call with they son from kuwait on surngd the arm ask the young family not to get into any specific detail about what happen during they son 's capture and release .
however , the family do get in a company of question about how he be treat .
they learn he lose 20 pound pound and also they son tell they that in the last few day of he capture , thing be not so bad but that they be very rough in the beginning .
now they be learn more detail that they son in fact be kick and beat after he capture , and that he fellow pilot david william have a knife hold to he throat immediately after a tur , accord to a interview they son be allow to conduct with `` the washington post '' , who fly with he into kuwait .
they son be say to be in very good spirit now and back here in georgia , after three week of not know exactly what have happen to he , finally , for the very first time in three week , the young family member get some sleep last night for the first time in a long time .
well , at least some family member do .
she sleep pretty good .
i be not kid .
all right .
i come home , she be in bed , i lay on the couch for a couple of hour , walk around , i think , i be go to sleep tonight , i really be .
i get in there , lay downer she must have take a pill or something .
sound like a saw mill go on next to I .
back on the couch again .
hey , i be tire .
and besides , it be relief , you know ?
i could finally sleep and know everything be okay .
reporter : of course , picture and videotape and a phone call be one thing .
but see they son in person be quite another .
and they be , of course , hope that will happen very soon .
young 's mother say , when she see she son , she plan on hug he for a good solid half hour .
back to you , judy .
at least , we would think , if that be the case .
thanks very much .
let 's turn to jamie at ft. hood , texa , where she be be talk with the family of chief warrant officer david william .
for they , jamie , begin what we just hear about the knife at he throat , they must be incredibly relieve .
reporter : you know , judy , they have be learn more and more as the day go on .
the focus be clearly not on they treatment or they capture but they freedom .
i be on the phone with michelle william yesterday , when she see those first picture on cnn of she husband , and she sleek with delight .
for three week she be watch and wait for some news .
the only other picture be he abandon helicopter .
she know instantly when she see it , because of the 1st cavalry emblem and special marking it be he .
it be be a long three week .
today be date she be wait for .
ihood a chance to spend some time with she yesterday .
this morning on `` american morning '' she tell we about what she reaction be when she see those first picture of she husband free .
i be so happy .
he -- i know i never lose hope that he be alive and just see he and be able to see he eye and he reaction to he rescue just take a huge load off my shoulder .
reporter : incredible support from military spouse , but this be a true love story .
the two meet , michelle and david in flight school .
they have be at ft. hood for a short time .
both be pilot .
michelle be
we begin we will finish .
-lsb- applause -rsb- d the extra $ 400 per child to american family this year , 2003 .
all together these tax reduction will help 92 million american .
and a significant part of the benefit to we economy will come within the first two year of the plan .
a family of four with a income of $ 40,000 would receive a 96 % reduction in federal income tax .
instead of pay $ 1,178 per year , the family would pay $ 45 a year .
-lsb- applause -rsb- that mean extra money in the family budget year after year .
that money can cover a lot of bill .
that money can help family with purchase they have be delay .
that money will be in circulation , which will be good for we economy .
-lsb- applause -rsb- and this plan will help we small business sector .
the benefit of the growth plan will come from uncreased consumer spending and , as importantly , from a lower income tax rate on the small business themselves .
it be important for we fellow citizen to understand that most small business pay they business tax at the individual rate .
most small business be sole proprietorship , limited partnership , be subchapter ss , and , therefore , when you reduce individual tax rate , you benefit small business formation .
as a matter of fact , under this plan , some 23 million small business owner will see they tax cut .
which leave more money for investment , more money for growth , more money for job creation .
a grow economy also need small business investment .
and we tax code should encourage investment .
today a small business can deduct a maximum of $ 25,000 in the year in which they buy equipment .
we need to triple the amount that can be deduct in the year in which they buy equipment .
-lsb- applause -rsb- so i propose to congress that they ought to limit -- limit ought to be increase to $ 75,000 and that limit ought to be index to inflation .
by do so , we promote greater investment in machinery .
and when a small business bias machine that enhance they company 's product divty as well as it mean machinery manufacturer be likely to have more work available .
more investment equal job .
and what we be interested in in this administration be help people who look for work find a job .
-lsb- applause -rsb- we can also promote economic growth and job creation by remove the double tax on dividend .
-lsb- applause -rsb- tax corporate income once be fair .
it be not fair for the federal government to tax the same money twice .
the burden of double taxation fall on the million of individual who receive dividend .
fall especially hard on senior who receive half of all dividend income .
removal of double taxation would put more money in the hand of investor .
it would encourage more investment in american business .
economist say that this plan will help we stock market , and since half of american family own stock , the reform will help they save and help we economy grow .
now , these measure be present to congress in the first week of this year .
the pro growth package be urgent in january .
it be even more urgent today .
-lsb- applause -rsb- it be important for you all to understand and for we fellow american to understand the tax relief that i have propose and will push for until enact would create -- -lsb- applause -rsb- will create 1.4 million new job by the end of 2004 .
in two year time , this nation have experience war , a recession and a national emergency .
which have cause we government to run a deficit .
the best way to reduce the deficit be with more growth in we economy , which mean more revenue to we treasury , and less spending in washington , d.c. -lsb- applause -rsb- i be pleased that both the house and senate have pass budget resolution that show real spending restraint .
and now the congress must focus on a robust and effective growth package .
we need at least $ 550 billion in that package because the more tax relief that go to the american people , the more job we will create in this economy .
-lsb- applause -rsb- the last few month have be a time of challenge for america .
we resolve have be test .
yet we have the great resource of national strength .
and national character .
to overcome every challenge we face .
we confidence a we optimism have never waiver .
we be defend the peace of the world .
we be bring freedom to corner of the world who have not see freedom in year .
we be all build the prosperity of we country .
this be a unique moment in we history and the american people be rise to meet it .
i want to thank each of you for you hard work .
i want to thank each of you for the faith you have show in this country 's future .
may god bless you , and may god continue to bless america .
-lsb- applause -rsb-
spy to help free private jessica lynch .
* * lara hijacking in 1995 have be capture by u.s. force in or near baghdad .
this be the italian ship that be take -- that be capture by palestinian terrorist back in 1985 and some may remember the story of leon clinghover , he be in a cheal chair and the terrorist shoot he and push he over the side of the ship into the mediterranean where he obviously , die .
this man , abu abba have live a i tin rant life , he be be in tuna .
he be be in libya and he be be live under the protection of saddam hussein in baghdad , but he be want for murder in italy italy .
there be charge , u.s. charge which have expire but could , i be tell , possibly be re -- restart for piracy , hostage taking and conspiracy .
so this be one of the oldest case of terrorism that be one of the oldest case that have not be close to date t. now look as if this man abu absaas in u.s. hand .
mile ?
good evening .
coalition force in baghdad have arrest the palestinian terrorist who lead the hijacking of the italian cruise ship the achille lauro in 1985 .
during that hijack the terrorist shot and kill a disabled american , leon klinghoffer , as he sit in he wheelchair .
they throw he body overboard .
national security correspondent david ensor join we live from washington .
david ?
the coroner examine the remains of two body recover near san francisco bay yesterday be unable to determine the cause of death .
police be now consider the possibility that the remains be those of laci peterson and she unborn child .
peterson disappear on christmas eve of last year .
paul vercammen join I now from martinez , california , with the latest for we .
paul ?
reporter : well , lou , one thing that the coroner have be able to determine be that the skeletal remains be those of one , a adult female , and two , the remains of the almost full-term baby boy .
and of course , this be significant because laci peterson , when she disappear from she modesto home , be 71/2 month pregnant .
that be on christmas eve .
she husband , scott , at the time say that he be fishing in the berkeley marina .
now , in a strange twist in all of this , just yesterday separate from the skeletal remain i allude to earlier a man hike near the berkeley marina find a bone , and they be now look at that as another possible lead in this case .
this person come across the bone at the shore .
he bring it home and contact the authority , and we take possession of it .
and you be try to connect it to the other -- well , we be try to find out if it be a human bone and whether or not it be related to the other .
reporter : and yet another reason why that bone could be a key link , there be report that have surface that in term of the female remain that be find the skeleton be not completely intact .
now this case be also take on a rather , we should say , almost a tv episodic forensic pathology angle because they be go to bring in a expert on what be call alufating decay , and basically this person be go to come in here and look at the body .
this be in the damage aspect of it .
and they say these expert will be able to tell how long the body have be in there and if the remains of the almost full-term baby boy be inside the female 's remain at the time of death .
also , the coroner could know right now but be not say if there be some sort of trauma to either of these skeleton , for example , if they could see the bone compromise in some way they could tell if there have be a stab or a shooting .
we may learn a lot more on this in just 15 minute .
that be because modesto police have schedule a news conference and while they may not say much at all they could also drop some major bomb shell , lou .
report live from martinez , california , i be paul vercamman , now back to you .
paul , let I ask you , if i may , quickly , be we expect -- be there any reason for we to expect that there would be the ability to identify those remain as a result of these autopsy this afternoon ?
reporter : it sound like all of this will be too quick , and it seem underlie all this be there could be a absence of dental record .
that be particularly important for the adult female remain .
so now they be go to have to turn to dna , and that be why they be call in these expert .
some dna testing can be very quick , but sometimes it can take up to week , even more , lou .
okay .
paul vercamman , thank you very much .
as paul just report , the modesto , california police department will be hold a news conference just a few minute from now , and cnn of course will be carry that news conference live .
stay with we .
all one of the many young face that bear the heavy mark of war .
the story of one boy who be lucky enough to be alive .
i be mary snow with this check of head line .
american airline ' fate be hang on its flight attend attendant 's union .
it be narrowly reject union today .
if the worker do not approve the steep cut back american say it will file for bankruptcy .
yesterday american pilot mechanic approve they share $ 1.8 billion in labor concession .
america warn it will seek more layoff if it do file for chapter 11 .
number of company be plan to cut they payroll .
motorola say it will eliminate another 3,000 job , 3 % of its work force .
let 's look at the latest number on the dow .
wall street stock be mixed .
the dow industrial down 64 point .
nasdaq up about 13 point .
that be the latest from wall street .
cnn live today continue after this .
the u.s. be consider its legal option now that it have custody of terrorist abu abba .
he be capture in baghdad late monday night .
he be convict of hijack the `` achille lauro '' in 1985 .
disabled american tourist kling klinghoffer be on board .
he be shoot and throw overboard .
more coverage continue now .
u.s. force in baghdad be stage spot raid around that city , search for holdout member of saddam 's regime .
as we report , one key initiative be the search for weapon of mass destruction .
and as part of that effort , u.s. special force today raid the home of the iraqi microbiologist know as dr. germ .
the woman who run iraq 's secret biological warfare laboratory .
mike boettcher have we exclusive report .
dr. rehab taha , aka dr. germ , who direct iraq 's biological weapon program .
cnn have exclusively obtain the unite nation english translation of she arabic work papers .
she research be conduct here at a location well-known to u.n. arm inspector .
300 mile west of baghdad .
she note begin with the test objective .
she write word be read by a narateor .
a field experiment be conduct to disperse biological agent , botulinum toxin and spor of bacillus .
reporter : the test be a success .
reporter : taha then describe the success of they test use a anthrax sim lant and artillery rocket .
reporter : and she reveal success in a 1989 test , use aerial bomb to disperse biological agent .
reporter : dr. taha 's note do not tell we how far she eventually progress in she biological weapon testing .
that be why the marine come knock .
look for she papers and look for she .
mike boettcher , cnn , baghdad .
and she have not be
for kill he wife and three child the oldest of whom be three , christian longo have be sentence to die .
prosecutor say longo stand he family because they stand before he and the life he crave .
the jury deliberate for three hour before return a death sentence .
now cnn 's coverage of the new iraq continue .
by u.s. force and which appear to be run by member of the the war begin in iraq several week ago .
the operation as it continue in the north continue to be a situation of unrest .
the area around mosul describe as uncertain in term of its stability with deliberate agitation .
those be the word there that general brook use a short time ago .
the unrest continue there and this follow up the shooting we talk about yesterday in which at least seven iraqi be kill by u.s. fire after they apparently come under fire try to secure a certain part of the central part of mosul .
also , news about another half-broth of saddam hussein apparently now apprehend overnight in baghdad with the i assistance of local iraqi .
not sure where in baghdad , personal the person western neighborhood of mansour .
you might remember last week when another half-brother of saddam hussein be pick up try to cross into syria and that time , we have be tell syria have close its border with iraq to prevent any of that ongoing .
we will go through all of this throughout the morning here .
first , to the pentagon and barbara starr to pick up what be happen .
power be restore on a rolling basis throughout baghdad today .
the city go dark two week ago leave people without electricity or the ability to cook or keep food from spoil .
engineer have manage to restart two substation and six diesel plant and also need that to help the hospital get online as well .
general brook talk about three major point .
one be the capture of number 24 as it be describe , samir who be responsible for the baghdad district , indication be the kurd in the north hand this man over so this be number 4 out of that play card deck of 55 that the u.s. be after .
top leader in iraq .
also that bomb site in baghdad hit about a week and a half ago , the mansour district .
no remain identify just yet , general brook say , but only the initial survey have be complete so far .
there be strong speculation that saddam hussein may be he two son be inside of that building when it be hit by coalition bomb , or may have leave prior to the bombing take place .
again , all this be a outstanding issue right now .
in the north , you be go to hear a lot about the shallow grave today .
at least 1500 , maybe 1600 grave located in the north .
jane arraf have make she way to that location and we hear she first live report about a hour ago and we will talk with jane again .
we know that , quote , work will be do with the iraqis and that work will come , we be tell , in the coming day .
a wrap from centcom and here be fredricka whitfield at the cnn center .
in a moment , check in the pentagon and get the latest on the iraqi prisoner of war .
we know of one detention center , well over 7,000 iraqi hold there and almost a thousand have be release .
check in on the pentagon for more and more on this tape and what they be say down in washington .
6:03 a.m. eastern time , seven american who have be prisoner of war in iraq make a public appearance at the medical center in germany .
they say they be look forward to go home , which relative of one former p.o.w. say could happen as soon as tomorrow .
official at the hospital say the sev reason in good shape and they prognosis be excellent , even though three have gunshot wound .
6:21 eastern time , 2:21 p.m. in iraq , iraqi protester demonstrate outside a baghdad mosque , oppose what they call the u.s. occupation , and say any new iraqi government must represent the people .
6:33 a.m. , cnn 's jane arraf report from kirkuk that local authority and u.s. investigator be still mystify by a graveyard on a military base abandon by the old iraqi regime .
there be hundred of unmarked grave , apparently date back to the 1991 gulf war , or before .
but it be not clear whether the people bury there be victim of regime atrocity , or whether it be simply a military graveyard .
7:05 a.m. , u.s. central command say another top baath party official have be capture .
he be hand over to coalition special force by iraqi kurd last night .
8:10 a.m. , abu dhabi tv broadcast videotape which it say show saddam hussein in a baghdad neighborhood last wednesday , april 9th , the day the city fall to coalition troops .
the network have not say where it get the tape .
there be no way to confirm when it be shoot or whether the man in the video be really saddam hussein .
iraqi museum worker be start to assess the damage to iraq 's history .
up to 20 loot the artifact have be return after religious cleric call for the action .
now official in the worldwide museum community have pledge they help in restore iraq 's past .
liz george explain .
iraq 's history , iraq 's culture .
it be all demolish .
reporter : a cry from the heart from one of iraq 's archaeologist .
a cry echo around the world .
it be a catastrophe .
it be a catastrophe for the people of iraq , it be a catastrophe for the whole world , because the civilization of ancient iraq be the first urban civilization in the world .
reporter : as the extent of the lookedding and destruction come to light , expert in the u.k. be make plan to help .
the british museum be home to the largest mesopotamia collection outside iraq , include some of the earliest form of write .
it be the duty of international community to restore as much as possible to the museum and then , i think , the international community must organize itself to help the iraqi colleague restore what be leave .
the british museum be put six conserve tor and three curator into this as soon as it be possible .
they will go to work with the iraqi colleague as
break news out of long beach , a situation with a standoff involve a 2-year-old and a man with a gun , this one have a peaceful ending .
this be near the long beach airport and involve a city bus .
a man who have assault , he actually have assault with a deadly weapon , this be picture .
look at that .
man spread eagle with a two-year-old child .
the officer be go to go in and swoop she away .
as we understand it , the man have the child .
it be inside of the city bus .
police surround this bus near the airport with gun draw .
the man come out and do the spread eagle like that , just as he do that , that be when you see the child just walk just a few foot away from he but the officer be able to get the child away .
they handcuff the man and they take he into custody .
that be after he have actually barricade himself inside that bus with the child .
so that one come to a peaceful ending , what could have be a very gruesome situation involve that 2-year-old child in southern california .
that one be over in long beach .
know saddam hussein 's rej geemg be no more , the focus in iraq be turn from military action to rebuild which mean the coalition 's role in the country will have to change .
military analyst and retire army general claudia kennedy join I with a look at possibility .
good to have you with we .
american airline not out of the wood yet .
for the latest on the company to avoid bankruptcy , check with rhonda schaffler .
hi there .
interesting story because we think thing be wrap up a couple district attorney ago .
now , the flight attendant be call for a new vote on the concession contract .
and if it be reject the largest airline may have to file for bankruptcy .
what be go on be that union member become outraged after learn about the airline 's executive compensation plan where woi would have pay huge bonus even in bankruptcy .
on friday , american withdraw the plan and its chief executive even apologize to union leader .
union member be still sing gri and they be demand another vote .
american and its rival have suffer from decline in business travel .
over the past three year , business have be cut back they travel expense to save money .
and now expert say they be go to keep do that , even when the economy pick up , e-mail , video , web conferencing become popular alternative to face-to-face meeting .
also fine cheap fare on internet or use low fare airline .
accord to business travel coalition , younger tech heavy manager be not so keen on jump on a plane .
they would rather use
american airline may soon have a new destination as well , bankruptcy court .
the airline flight attendant union be call for a new vote on $ 340 million in wage concession after the disclosure last year of a executive compensation plan .
the world 's largest airline need the concession to avoid a bankruptcy filing .
amr , the parent of american airline , cancel the bonus program and ceo donald carty as apoll cize to employee .
the share plunge 40 % here at the nyse .
the overall market a fairly quiet session .
volume be thin as some trader take a extended holiday weekend .
over the next couple of day we will continue to get earnings report .
today only a few corporate report and little economic news to move the market .
it be why the dow have be fairly range bind .
the nasdaq at this point little change .
that be the latest from the new york stock exchange .
there be lot more `` live from '' come up after the break .
i be allan chernoff at the new york stock exchange .
american airline , a second major union at american be plan a new vote on the company 's cost cut agreement .
the union be outrage that a bonus plan for top executive that have not be fully disclose before the union vote to take pay cut .
the transport broker union make the revote last night moment before the ceo publicly apologize to he employee .
carty say he think the employee would like the plan that mean to keep the executive that company .
but he conceal the detail fear the story would cause problem when they be ask employee for big concession .
share of american airline be fall sharply for the second straight day on the fear that the company might be force to file for bankruptcy .
the stock market have bounce back from a weak start .
a lot more earning 's report out today , many positive , a few disappointment sprinkle in , as well .
the dow jone industrial average be up by 16 point right now and the nasdaq composite higher by 6 point .
if you watch `` newsnight '' regularly and you do , do not you ?
you know that we be fan of still photographer and try to bring they work in iraq and tonight again , we do .
eric seal of knight-ridder trainchl shooting for the detroit free press .
he be to he chagrin , could be the most toughest and important battle of they all , win the peace .
reporter : before the war , i be in jordan .
we be wait for the iraqi refugee to show off .
everyone think would stream from iraq and from baghdad into the jordan , like do in 1991 .
but the iraqi do not show up .
on april 9th , about 130 journalist from around the world include myself and a couple of reporter , we be go to try to cross the border because we be all desperate to get into iraq , two day after the saddam statue fall and we all know it be over .
my name be eric salee , i be a photographer at detroit free press and currently work in baghdad and be here about a week and a half .
156 iraqi police officer be suppose to show up to this college to report for work .
but instead , 2,000 show up because they hear about it on the radio .
so the whole college be swarm with police officer want they job back .
and this gentleman be kind of in charge of the whole operation and one man have he arm up yell at he , be basically a angry officer demand he job .
we come across a checkpoint and there be about maybe five , six iraqi local with ak-47 machine gun and check car .
those kind of neat that the iraqi be take pride in the fall of the regime and want to restore order themselves .
we have hear rumor of a underground prison .
and rumor have it there be a bunch of kuwaitis and one american hold in this underground prison that people forget about .
so we go into this bunker hope to find a prison and run into these prisoner and instead we run into a room full of weapon from bullet to hand grenade , land mine , rocket-propelled grenade .
besides weapon , there be paperwork all over the
meanwhile , the man in charge of put iraq 's government back together spend today in a stronghold of one of the country most important ethnic minority the kurd .
for the second day in a row , lieutenant general jay garner be mob by friendly crowd after tour a kurdish school in the northern iraqi city of irbil , the cursd should show as a model for the rest of the country .
u.s. official keep find cash hide by saddam 's regime .
$ 112 million turn up today in some dog kennel .
so far u.s. soldier have discover nearly $ 600 million hide around baghdad .
four u.s. soldier be under investigation for allegedly keep some of that .
the four be turn in after other soldier discover several hundred miss from near neatly-packed case .
sar be spread , major league baseball plan to warn its player head to canada , particularly to toronto for the all-star break in july to take some precaug .
that mean instead of meet the fan and sign autograph , they will be keep they distance and wave .
there be more outrage about perk for executive , both from angry employee and from shareholder as well .
andy serwer `` mind you business . ''
shame on they .
the big focus be american airline , the board of the company meeting today , possibly discuss the future of ceo don carty , he get in trouble when he jack up pension of the guy in top while ask employee to take big pay cut .
$ 1.8 billion .
last night , former general electric ceo jack welch talk to paula zahn about this issue of corporate greed .
let 's listen to what he have to say .
it be one of the part of america that be great .
people want more and they want other people to have less .
that be part of the system .
and annual meeting , every year , i go they complain about executive salary , even though the team that i manage increase shareholder value to $ 600 billion that sharoner receive , the larger share orn be employee .
i think it be really a question of degree , i mean , i think that ceo should make million of dollar run company , there be ten of thousand employee , billion of dollar of revenue .
a million dollar be okay , maybe 5 million , $ 100 million to I that be too much money .
who decide that ?
seem subjective .
the board be who decide that and board be so often chock full of the ceo golfing buddy , they serve on each other 's board and problem here be gap between what the average worker make and ceo be make be increase and everyone agree that be not a good thing for this country , plus the fact , when the guy get the big packagese , so often you see the company go down the zblub thank you for update we .
back over to bill .
.
thank you .
jack look at sar .
talk about the sar threat worldwide this morning .
the world health organization say there be 4200 sar case so far , more than 250 death in 27 country and there be no cure .
and nobody know what be cause it .
the question be , would you change you plan because of the threat of sar ?
a lot of response , as in hundred and hundred of they , begin
a cruise ship be be search off the hawaii coast after two note threaten terrorist attack be find on board .
royal caribbean cruise ship legend of the sea divert to honolulu when the note be find on board yesterday .
passenger be take to the ship 's dining room while bomb sniff dog go over the ship .
some u.s. troops have not have a chance to call home since they be deploy for duty in `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
for some wife , the kindness of stranger have ease they worry .
beth basin explain .
reporter : jamie 's husband jack be deploy a couple of week ago .
she and she daughter jordan often shuffle through these picture of he take before he leave .
she have no idea where she husband be now , but thanks to a little help from a delta flight attendant , she know he get where he be go .
she have take a picture of he and everything .
reporter : along with the picture , the flight attendant write a letter say she be prague for jack 's safe return .
the trip to georgia be just the first leg .
he get on a flight to a undisclosed location , when jamie get a second phone call from a flight attendant .
he ask we to call you to let you know he be okay , and she tell we that he whip out picture of we kid and everything and show all the family picture and stuff .
reporter : jamie be not the only military wife who receive a photo and letter .
she friend anna also get one .
turn out anna 's husband fly out on the same flight as jack .
although a small gesture , anna say it be maent a great deal .
it make I realize that someone out there do care about my husband and the rest of the military , and it be not all anti-war .
reporter : even though neither of the woman have ever meet the flight attendant , they say they will never forget they act of kindness .
we get thousand of e-mail from we viewer every day .
here be what some of you be say as far as we coverage of the top story be concern .
william write this -- please continue to write to we .
we love hear from you .
just go to we website , cnn.com/wolf .
we read all of you e-mail .
much more coverage of the new iraq and
stock sell off on wall street today , end a two-session rally .
one catalyst rise to the highest level in more then a year .
the dow jone industrial average down 75.62 .
the nasdaq lose almost nine .
the s & p 500 down almost eight .
the 11th executive of health south charge with two count of bank fraud .
the former chief financial officer become the 50th execute anybody corporate america to be charge since enron 's collapse .
seven enron executive have also be charge .
507 day since enron file for bankruptcy .
the se kre hold a closed door meeting on the settlement over conflict of interest in stock research .
source tell we a final deal will be announce monday in washington .
regulator and research firm promise that the $ 1.5 billion settlement would be finalize two month ago .
no settlement in the dixie chick dispute .
the singer fight back now about the criticism of they remark against president bush .
and the material girl , she be fight she own past .
criticize american for value she once espouse .
bill tucker have the story .
some break news out of fort worth , texa , tonight .
a big shake-up at american airline .
let 's turn to gregg clarkin who be on the ground in texa with the very latest .
good evening , gregg , what happen ?
reporter : good evening , paula .
a management blunder we hear a awful lot about on behalf of donald carty , the ceo of american airline , parent company amr have cost carty he job .
the company announce that donald carty be out as ceo , he will be replace by gerald aftery .
carty , if you recall have be pressure union over the last couple of month to accept steep pay cut , cut back they vacation time and holiday pay , as well , say the company need these concession at bankruptcy court .
no sooner do the union agree to these don session that it become know that carty and have some of he top executive have give a bit of a package of perk .
perk that include a trust fund to protect some of the pension in the event of a bankruptcy as well as retention bonus .
when the union learn of that they become outraged and say confidence and trust in carty be damage without repair .
carty be out as ceo of amr , the parent of american , the world 's largest airline .
one other topic still to be decide , bankruptcy .
the company say if they do not get the flood attendant to concede to a special offer , they will indeed file for bankruptcy .
back to you .
thank you very much .
the chief executive of the world 's largest airline have resign , not a com plately unexpected move because several board member he talk about want he to leave .
we will move on to other material now as we have be report , nobody seem to know for sure if saddam hussein be dead or alive .
whatever he fate , he leave behind some video .
home video , in fact .
bruce burkhart have take a look and he say they show a very different side of a former iraqi ruler .
reporter : who be that nice man stroll with he wife ?
yes , it be he .
the cruel and ruthless iraqi dictator , saddam hussein .
all warm , fuzzy .
romanticly stroll with he first wife on a snowy path , trendy leather coat , furry hat .
gently kiss she good-bye like a good husband at the now famous saddam hussein international airport .
tailor suit , shyly a modest cake for he 50th birthday .
happily chat with peasant behind the wheel of he white mercedes .
well , this be not a episode of joe dictator , or a iraqi version of the lifestyle of the rich and famous .
these be videotape from the '80 find in a palace of saddam hussein 's first wife .
bizarre imagency almost surreal , but a reminder that even brutal dictator have a private
two southwest airline pilot be reportedly fire for strip down .
it be not part of a security check .
`` usa today '' say the pilot be dismiss for allegedly take off all or most of they clothes in the cockpit .
i want to make that distinction there .
the pilot be call the sdebt -- incident a misunderstanding and appeal they termination .
tariq aziz 's sun ziad look worried .
he be willing to talk with we , but not be interview .
as he explain how he father negotiate he surrender .
he say he father 's night-time handover be dignified , that u.s. force offer medical support for he father 's heart condition , that have cause two heart attack recently .
they do not know when to expect he back , and have be tell he face lot of question .
outside , u.s. troops provide occasional protection .
nearby , a neighbor hope all will be well .
another neighbor come to we car to give he opinion .
he be a normal person , he say .
a good neighbor , but a bad politician .
at they nearby store , they prepare to open for they first day of business since the war .
aziz be a politician he say .
it be saddam and the other american have problem with .
maybe he give we information about the missing people , and perhaps saddam hussein .
further down the road , these man wait for a ride .
neither have anything bad to say about aziz .
we call he mr. aziz , and i be proud of he , say this former traffic cop .
he be culture , and i wish someone like he rule we .
he friend add , if all the leader stay in baghdad , then the american will catch they .
across town in a less affluent neighborhood , reaction to aziz 's arrest be profoundly different .
i do not hear about it , explain this man , because we do not have electricity .
when we explain the news to the crowd , a bystander step forward .
america be play a trick on we he say .
where be we government and we security ?
at the pickle store , passion be enflame by the lack of service .
aziz be a war criminal say ahm .
he should get the death penalty , just like saddam , 60 time over .
we give mr. bush six month to get thing right he say , go on to explain , if not , we will fight the american .
the biggest problem tariq aziz ' family say they now face be that aziz be now safely in u.s. custody , they do not know how safe they be out on baghdad 's street .
nic robertson , cnn , baghdad .
* * the `` uss abraham lincoln . ''
it be a guide missile destroyer .
they fire off 50 tomahawk missile during `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
you talk about the capability of this ship .
the other mission that it take part in be the operation before t fall of the saddam hussein and he regime .
they be out there take down illegal smuggler and go out and board the ship .
now , also , this ship play a important part within the war and that be because of the radar system .
it could detect object smaller than a honey bee .
what do that mean ?
it can detect enemy radar or missile and destroy they instantly .
they be a big part in `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
you be see the picture , everybody be home .
friend and family connect .
have not see each other in almost 10 month now .
14 father have not see they baby .
they all reunite with they family .
we get to meet up with one such family .
we will show you picture of the galetta family .
katie be bear on christmas day , anderson .
this be the first time she father get to hold she and look in she eye since he come back from `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
130 sailor really excite to be home back on land after be at sea for nearly 10 month carry out `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
some remarkable story .
we be look at now , a sailor see he baby for the first time , just remarkable .
kyra phillip , we appreciate you bring it to we today .
a international tourist in new york city do most of he sight see inside a hospital .
health official say they have to forcibly detain the man who exhibit possible sar symptom .
official say the unnamed tourist have knick ticket and be determine to use they .
here be some number to put the spread of sar in perspective for you .
across the globe , there have be almost 5,000 document case of sar in 27 different country .
china , the country where sar originate , have be the hardest hit , with thousand of case and more than 100 death .
here in the united state , however , there have be no death among the 41 probable case of sar .
17 state have probable case while another 21 state have suspect case .
but just to put the threat of sar in perspective , in the united state , 284 people die last year from the west nile virus while 36,000 people die every year from the flu .
another six executive from enron could be charge with security fraud and other crime .
federal prosecutor notify the former employee that they could face charge as early as this week .
they would join seven other executive already charge abe we enron corporate america score board set 50 executive now charge in america .
seven of they , as i say , at enron .
no one , no one be send to prison .
be 511 day since enron file for bankruptcy .
as bob point out , the next battle ground be a bill to block lawsuit by victim of gun violence or family against gunmaker and dealer .
and one person whose suit would be block be denise johnson if the legislation go through , the widow of bus driver conrad johnson , the last person kill in the washington , d.c. sniper attack .
jonathan lowe be a attorney with the brady center to prevent gun violence who file the suit on behalf of johnson and other victim ' family .
good of you to join we .
let 's talk about what ms. johnson write in the `` washington post '' today .
we will put a small part of that up on the screen right now where she say , `` i be confident that the criminal justice system will work to punish the people who kill my husband .
but the civil justice system must also be allow to work .
those who share responsibility for my husband 's death must also be hold accountable . ''
what do she mean ?
the palestinian crossroads that could lead to the relation in a new direction .
yasser arafat back abu mazen as prime minister .
a first step he say toward peace with israel .
now palestinian leader must vote on whether to september 24-member cabinet that mazen be present .
kelly wallace be stand by .
what be the latest ?
welcome back .
we be stand by for the white house press briefing .
ari fleischer expect to come into the west wing briefing room to brief reporter on a wide variety of subjekt .
we be all get this note in , this news in from the speech that the homeland security secretary tom ridge be expect to be deliver at the international press club around 1:00 eastern at the top of the hour .
we be expect that the homeland security secretary will announce the iraqi lawyer who provide information that help in the rescue op private first class jessica lynch the former p.o.w. , that this iraqi lawyer , who provide the information to u.s. military authority ie have be grant asylum here in the united state , together with he wife and daughter .
they be currently in the washington , d.c. area .
a official tell we justice producer terry frieden .
so that development important .
might get more information from secretary tom ridge when he deliver that speech over at the press club in the next hour .
we will be monitor that as well .
we also have a update on that disturbing development outside baghdad .
about 40 mile or so outside baghdad in fallujah where there be h a shootout between u.s. troops and iraqy who have be demonstrate there .
karl penhaul be join we life on the phone with more .
first of all , karl , how many iraqi be kill in that incident ?
now a update on a story that touch all we life .
remember alus abba who lose both he arm , he home , many of he relative in a bombing on baghdad ?
as you might imagine , he will to live would not -- be not very strong at first .
mark webster of itn have a update for we .
reporter : after so much suffering , he gentle smile say it all .
two week in hospital and ali be recover fast .
happily watch tom and jerry on he minus television , he transformation from the pain-racked boy who leave baghdad .
with the encouragement of he doctor , we visit he in the intensive care unit .
they be confident he will not be here much longer .
i will say he will come out of the burn unit in three week time , but he will be , you know , in kuwait until we find he really constructive plan that take into consideration all aspect of he need , psychological , social and future plan .
reporter : since ali be a ardent football fan , we give he a manchester unite shirt specially sign by all the player .
pride of face go to he favorite player , david beckham , who surprise everyone with he response .
thank you very much .
reporter : gift
coalition force in iraq have capture a member of a terrorist group with link to al qaeda .
source tell we national security correspondent , david ensor , that the terrorist be a member of a group operating in the west of baghdad .
that group be lead by abu musab zarqawi .
u.s. official believe zarqawi plan the assassination of u.s. diplomat lawrence foley in jordan last october .
coalition force also say saddam hussein 's former oil minister have surrender .
he be a expert on iraq 's missile system as well .
the former minister , the 6 of spade in the deck of card , show the most wanted member of the saddam hussein regime .
he be marry to the iraqi microbiologist know as dr. germ .
she be in charge of the iraqi facility that weaponize anthrax .
the former governor of basra province also surrender to coalition force today .
he be the 8 of club .
another story in the 1:00 p.m. hour in canada .
the top story there today , the world health organization announce it be lift its advisory against travel to toronto because of fear of sar .
it be be 20 day since the last case of locally transmit sar in toronto .
and there have be no new confirm case of sar export out of toronto .
the who say sar advisory against travel to hong kong , beij and the chinese provence will remain in effect .
china have more sar case than any country in the world .
3303 by today 's count .
that be more than twice as many as hong kong which rank second .
colorado woman want to thank and reward the person who find she $ 7,000 ring she lose at the beach .
tony kurran have lose the ring she husband have give she and a few day later , the ring be wrap in a letter write in green pencil at the police department .
the letter say -- he say he find the ring , give it to he mother as a present .
touch .
what he do right be give it back ?
i get lose .
he feel bad because ?
i will give you a write copy .
a quiz ?
the copy do exist .
we be get word develop news on this middle east situation .
we be get word that u.s. ambassador to israel have deliver the white house middle east road map for peace to ariel sharon , the israeli prime minister .
in part , it declare the palestinian state work towards that end and within three year , the year 2005 , you be go to hear a lot of talk about this later today and throughout the morning on cnn .
the other thing we be watch right now , take you live to baghdad inside what use to be the saddam hussein international airport .
now name the baghdad international airport .
we anticipate in a matter of moment , the secretary of defense , donald rumsfeld , to arrive inside of this hangar and we will carry he speech live when that get underway .
-- caption by vitac -- www.vitac.com just because a toothbrush t be electric , do not mean it work t like a sonicare .
it have patent r sonic
senator and a good teacher believe in the possibility of every boy and girl .
the good teacher see what be possible .
a good teacher believe in the responsibility of every school to bring out the best in every student .
and 2001 , we pass what be call the no child leave behind legislation .
i love tha phrase , because it be a commitment of we nation to make sure that not only do every child excel , but no child get left behind .
member of both party , both republican and democrat come together to pass this law inherent in the law be the vision of high standard .
and money to meet the standard .
a historic reform .
all of which put the education decision of america in the hand of teacher and principal and local official .
but we also say that as we seek excellence for every child , we must design accountability system at the state level to determine whether or not each child be learn .
in order to make sure no child get left behind , we must understand whether or not each child be learn to read and write and add and subtract .
if there be , there will be plenty of praise .
if not , we will work to design program to make sure no child get left behind .
that be the crux of the law .
every state meet the law january 31st deadline for submit they accountability plan for approval .
i be pleased to announce that secretary page have approve plan from arkansa , missouri and washington state .
which bring the -- which bring the total number of approve plan to 16 cover 16 million child in public school across america .
secretary page and he department will continue work with the rest of the state to get the plan approve as quickly as possible .
people be respond to the challenge at the local level .
people be begin to develop the accountability system to show you state and you community that you be do you job .
leave no doubt in the mind of the parent and taxpayer and citizen , some of whom praise public school , some be critical of public school , that you be perform .
they will understand why you be here be honor in washington , d.c. as one of the top 54 teacher around we country .
education reform depend on good law and good plan but you and i know it ultimately depend on good teacher .
last june state submit to the department of education strategy for ensure that all teacher be highly qualify .
by this september , state will assess the program they expect to make by 2005 and 2006 school year .
the department be work with state to help teacher meet new definition of teacher quality , so that every classroom will have a well-trained highly effective teacher like you all .
we 2003 national teacher of the year be a example of the highest professional standard .
and the finest personal quality .
betsy roger teach first and second grade student and lead alabama .
she be a accomplished teacher with 22 year in the profession .
she could have she pick of any school .
yet she choose to teach in the school in a underprivileged rural area because she believe that devoted teacher and principal can make a difference in the life of student from every background .
teaching be a tradition in betsy 's family .
she grandmother be a teacher .
she mother teach sunday school for 50 year .
and she own career betsy roger be know for a commitment to student that go beyond school hour .
she give before school tutoring to student who need extra help learn to read .
and volunteer on school committee after hour .
she attend sport event and birthday party for she student .
she help the familiar list of disadvantaged student through local church and community group .
betsy also encourage she student to help each other no matter what you circumstance in life , you can always give .
teacher like betsy roger put child on the road to become good citizen .
as importantly , successful adult .
they show student that there be a lot of care people ready to help along the way .
i thank every one of we teacher of the year for you determination and you love .
each of you be a example of excellence in the classroom .
each of you be a model for a young teacher to follow .
and you student be fortunate to have talent and good-hearted people in they life .
and we nation be fortunate to have you in the classroom .
thank you for you work .
may god bless what you do .
and now i be pleased to introduce the national teacher of the year betsy roger .
-lsb- applause -rsb-
it be wednesday , april 30 , 2003 .
hello from washington .
i be wolf blitzer reporting .
we be follow several major development right now .
that be then , this be now , 20 year after meet saddam hussein in baghdad , defense secretary donald rumsfeld be back in the iraqi capital with victorious u.s. troops .
and you be look at a live picture from the `` uss abraham lincoln '' on its way back from war .
from its flight deck president bush will make a major announcement to the american people tomorrow night on the end of major combat in iraq .
right now we be also wait to hear from the president at the white house .
we will bring you he comment as soon as we get they and we will get to all of that shortly , but first .
a move by the president today design to save child 's life and among he guest in the rose garden , elizabeth smart .
here 's cnn 's justice correspondent kellus arena .
she be join we live .
welcome back .
check in with jack cafferty as we look at the fountain outside of time answer life .
we be talk about the road map to middle east peace and run a footage about the chicken and these dog .
there be the picture .
the golden real estate treever on the left have a litter of pup and the chicken get in the pen , a real story , they be all hang out .
it look as though the puppy in one of the shot be try to get lunch from the chicken .
that be what they be do , jack !
we get a lot of e-mail to we on the east coast who do not know about the farm .
the answer be apparently , you can get .
you can not nurse a chicken .
bill .
there you go .
the question should be what be the chicken get out of this .
i do not want to go there .
i.k. in new jersey a buyology teacher , i can tell you without hesitation , a chicken can not be nurse .
only mammal that have distinct biological feature .
chicken be also the void of hen 's tooth , much to the satisfaction of those little puppy .
you do not -- city people ?
no .
we viewer be nice .
not nasty .
here be the explanation .
this be the real deal .
any farm kid know that certain animal can not see for a few day after they be bear , include puppy .
the puppy try to nurse the chicken hen .
they do that by feel , not sight .
a chicken hen be warm and comfortable , so they try they luck and eventually feel they way back to the mother dog where thing work out better for they .
i be so glad that be clear up .
we will get back to the
letdownch * * at the helm come in on final to the `` uss abraham lincoln '' and land hit the fore wire , a safe trap .
one of 12,675 takeoff and trap that have take place aboard the `` uss abraham lincoln '' during this 10 month long deployment , the longest deployment of a aircraft carrier in the u.s. since the vietnam era .
after the president come aboard , he then spend a considerable amount of time talk to many of the young man and woman on the flight deck , take photograph with they , still wear he flight suit throughout much of that period , talk to they and again this evening , he will be issue a major address to the american people reguard the end of major combat operation .
white house aide call it a important moment .
he -- after landing and take a brief tour of part of the ship , he also go out on to the flight deck and observe some of the flight operation of some of the f-18 aircraft that be now leave these aircraft , head to lamore after this 10-month long deploy be .
wolf ?
back to the scene in orlando florida .
we be here moment ago where the man in the green in the forefront of the screen there .
the former p.o.w. david william be speak to the crowd rather emotionally and now you see he be take down the black and white p.o.w. flag .
i wish i could tell you which site this flag be hoist in .
we have the picture come in from central florida , news 13 .
this be that city hall in orlando , now i be be tell .
quite a emotional scene this morning .
david william , one of the p.o.w.s whose face we get to know in the coverage that we see come from iraq .
other p.o.w.s from iraq after they be capture and release , that dramatic release that sunday morning when they be pick up by a squadron of marine who have want wander in a town in baghdad and be tell where they be be keep .
dramatic rescue and then a return home .
quite a emotional experience and one of we can only imagine what it must have be like to endure .
as we say , quite a emotional moment in orlando , florida .
and you see apache helicopter pilot and he wife michelle who be talk with we on the telephone the sunday morning when the video come in of the rescue of the p.o.w.s and she be able to tell we on the telephone as we have those picture up on air , she identify she husband and life just get better and better for she after that .
move on now , in upstate new york stock exchange criminal charge have be file in last month 's fraternity hazing death at platsberg state university of new york .
11 member have be charge with negligent homicide for force 18-year-old pledge walter dean jenning to drink a excessive amount of water .
the fraternity also face more than 150 charge for other hazing activity , as well .
make this final port call for some of these man and woman on board who have be there for ten month at sea .
chad myer join I on the set .
typical perfect day in san diego wait for these man and woman to come home .
rain in l.a. , rain in san francisco but nice in san diego .
it be a picture perfect place to live .
72 and sunny just about every day .
have you ever be down there ?
no , i have not .
it be quite stunning .
it be beautiful out there .
i just think about all the family member sit at home , sit on the dock look at this boat come in .
it be just amazing .
they be not on vacation .
they be in danger .
you love one be in danger for ten month .
be he okay today ?
be she okay today ?
incredible sight to see these young man and woman .
they be child .
they be 18 , 19 , 20 year old .
think about when i be do when i be 18 , i be think about go to college .
these guy be run ship .
some of these , as you say , be child .
some of these have child while they be out at sea and this be the first time that -- first opportunity to get home and meet and hold they .
we have see the reunion for the past week or so .
it bring a lot of emotion .
it be go to be har for I to hold back tear .
we be watch from the sideline .
you can just imagine what these people must be think and how antsy they must be .
get to think the last five minute must feel like five day as they have spend ten month on the water .
just about to come home .
sense the anticipation there begin to build on those dock .
friend of mine in richmond , virginia , on the radio up there wrba .
he son be on one of the ship that escort a carrier .
although this come home by itself from hawaii .
there be so many other ship out there that escort this ship as it go out .
it be just not one ship .
not just 5,000 people .
it be a battle group that go out .
eight , nine , ten ship and a submarine .
while some of these lady and gentleman be go to be join they family half of they be go to stay on board because this -- the `` lincoln '' be go to be dock in everett , washington .
that be where the home base be .
it be go to have to make a trip up the coast .
they will not get to see they love one until tuesday or wednesday .
i wonder who get to get off first .
be there a drawing ?
be there a raffle ?
we have get to deal with the person who be go to be get off here .
as you have be watch throughout the morning , you have be see that balloon .
just get back from spend a tour in kuwait during the war .
betsy be go to be leave we .
she be jump ship .
she be go on she own .
she be one of the water skier .
we have to let she go .
she be go to be leave we .
she will be leave g -- we do wish you the best , betsy .
you know that .
it be be a blast have you .
be a pain in the butt sometimes .
be big part of we group the entire time .
love you , betsy .
thank you , leon .
we be go to say good-bye to betsy .
some of these lady and gentleman be go to be say hello to they family .
stand on the side of the ship .
can not wait to get off there .
we will have that for you live .
these reunion .
that should be happen any moment now .
stay with we .
and the grow number of sar case in china .
the country report now 160 new case and nine more death .
there be no sign that this infection rate have grow .
beijing remain the most affected part of the country , but figure show this disease be also spread in northern china .
11:00 a.m. on the east coast , 8:00 a.m. on the west .
leon harris checking in here .
up first , search for survivor .
from deadly tornado in the midwest and the south .
the path of destruction scratch through kansa , missourus , arkansa and tennessee .
camera capture a tornado on the ground in missouri .
the governor have declare a state of emergency after twister strike several western county .
20 people be kill in that state .
in kansa , authority say seven people be kill when tornado cut across the southeastern part of the state .
several county have be declare disaster area there .
now , across the region , the storm demolish home , rip down power line , uproot tree tree .
search team look for people who be still miss .
one of the site prove to be the most deadly be the law enforcement center in the western tennessee city of jackson .
a emergency official tell cnn that ten people die there .
dozen be hurt .
join we on the phone be the mayor of jackson , tennessee , charle farmer .
mayor farmer , can you give we the latest on you town .
we founder here at cnn , ted turner , have sell more than half 0 he stake in aol time warner .
that be a lot of share and a lot of money .
andy serwer 's look into that and the mark muz .
if you be invest , why now ?
chitchat in the time life building here at aol and all over wall street , ted turner selling 60 million share for $ 800 million , more than half of he stake in the company , he open 40 million plus now .
question be , why ?
why be he sell ?
i think he be begin up .
he be at least -- hedge he bet by keep 40 million share but basically he be decide that the company be not go wait he want it to go and he be bail out .
you know , a lot of concern obviously by people who still own the stock .
my point about this , if ted turner be so smart and he be a very smart guy but he do not sell at the top , okay ?
he do not sell at $ 60 .
hind sight would have like to have get that .
he believe in the merger like most other people do .
we will look back five year from now , you can see , he have lose a lot of money .
you know , he still have $ 1.7 billion , we be not shed tear .
he do have $ 8 billion .
he be leave a lot on the table .
we will look back five year from now and say , when the stock be either at $ 13 still or $ 8 or $ 30 and say , he be either very smart or not smart at all .
he be still hedge he bet by keep 40 million stake .
i hope he be wrong .
I , too .
the question , i be a aol shareholder sit at home , hear this news , do this set off a few alarm ?
will people panic and everybody sell it ?
i think the stock will be weaker today .
again , you know , the stock have drift below $ 10 .
it be be in the neighborhood for a while .
i do see the thing go down a lot .
interesting point here also , people be suggest he may be raise this money to buy those atlanta sport team that apparently be on the block .
the brave and thrasher .
you really think ?
you know , i be not sure .
he love -- apparently they be for sale .
we will have to see about that .
thank you .
thank you .
let 's check 4 with jack now .
the question of the day , bill bennet ?
i figure if turner 's smarter than i am , i be sell my 80 share .
80 of they .
$ 13 and change , out .
talk about bill bennet this morning one of the country 's lead crusader for morality author of `` virtue '' and admit he have a gambling problem .
I he make the admission after bennett lose up to $ 8 million in casino in the last decade .
the article say he win at time that he have $ 200,000 line of credit at several lay casino .
gambling , however , be not one of of of the vice bennett think be undermine american culture .
we want to hear from viewer this morning .
he do say he be go to stop .
news of bill bennet 's gambling change you opinion of he ?
many , many response .
hypocrite would be a word present in many e-mail .
hypocrite .
barbara , bill bennet 's glam gambling loss change my opinion .
linda write he can do what he want with he money .
i think he be smarter than that .
lawrence in missouri , after sit in front of my tv night after night , listen to he , watch every perversion , sin and evil know to man or beast , be glamourize by sitcom and tv talk head , imagine my shock in hearing that bill bennet be soundly condemn for gambling , be this the beginning of a new morality ?
chad new york big deal .
what have you do wrong this morning ?
i be not tell , chad .
david say my opinion do not change because of the new news .
i always think bennett be a louse .
am@cnn.com be the address .
unburden yourself .
we will talk more about it with jeff greenfield come up .
we will continue to watch this cramma unfold off key largo in florida .
let 's much on to another important story .
it be happen , of course , several time during the war in iraq , journalist catch in the line of fire and kill .
israeli troops be face a similar situation with two journalist kill in just the past two week .
here 's cnn 's cly wallace .
reporter : friday night in the gaza strip and a journalist be about to lose he life .
shortly after several shot be hear a israeli bulldozer can be see uncover the israeli say , a tunnel use to smuggle weapon .
moment later , three journalist who be cover that israeli action appear .
one with tv label on the back of a bullet-proof vest , another carry a white flag .
judge from the videotape , they appear difficult to see in the darkness .
and difficult to hear .
after the journalist shout , another gunshot .
moment later , another shot and the sound of someone in pain .
34-year-old british journalist jame miller die on the scene after israeli soldier come to he aid , the israeli defense source say .
he be best know for he work on two award-winning documentary which appear on cnn expose the world to the taliban rule in afghanistan .
now the foreign press association in israel be call for a independent investigation .
jame be not shooting and he be not with somebody shooting .
so , again , to know exactly what happen we need a full-fledged inquiry .
the israeli government say its force be return fire and that miller be shoot in the back , suggest he could have be hit by palestinian gunman .
those close to miller believe he be shoot by a armored israeli personnel carrier .
we know the israelis fire .
whether or not he be shoot by israelis gunfire , we be not certain at this time .
miller become the second journalist in just two week to be kill cover the israeli-palestinian conflict .
with palestinian cameraman , shot and kill by a israeli soldier on the west bank in mid-april .
with back-to-back death make a total of at least seven journalist kill cover the conflict in the past two and a half year .
this be very worrying and i believe the israeli army should take special measure to prevent this .
the message from the israeli government be that its soldier be not target journalist , but that journalist who travel to place where there could be live fire exchange between israeli force and palestinian gunman have a responsibility to take greater precaution .
they have to realize that this be not a game go on there .
it be a life and death situation .
soldier be basically think about they own life at that moment .
they do not have time to hesitate .
the israeli spokesman say the soldier he no choice , but to be there .
journalist say
he be call comic albuquerque i or baghdad bob during the war in iraq when he keptic sift thing be go badly for the u.s. and great for saddam hussein .
the minister of information or disinformation vanish when baghdad fall and have not be see since , but he legacy remain in a dance tune producer hope will be a huge hit .
more on this now from cnn 's jim bolden in london .
reporter : they have no control .
do not believe they .
.
what do he say ?
do not believe they .
reporter : he be unbelievable .
my feeling be as usual .
reporter : and he usually do not tell the truth and now he be a star .
we think he be the funniest guy we have see on television since benny hill .
.
reporter : a group of london-based dance musician have produce a mohammed saif al sahaf song , `` i can not believe what i be hearing . ''
some of the thing he come out with when the american tank be converge with he .
pound they .
pound they .
they be not here and they be behind he all of the time .
reporter : the song feature saa of 's own voice in he own voice .
he voice be brilliant .
he could be a rapper if he be a rapper he could get a job do this kind of thing .
yeah .
reporter : iraq 's former information minister might need a job right now .
sal saa of be nowhere to be find , but he face be virtually everywhere on web site , coffee cup , t-shirt and doll .
if he ever do show he face again in the flesh .
he will have a loyal following .
reporter : if he do not claim he royalty , they will donate they to a iraqi child 's charity .
jim bolden , cnn , london .
if you would like to hear more of the news cal debut of mohammed saeed sal sahaf , we ` vea add a link on cnn.com/wolf .
we will update you on a drama unfold off the coast of florida .
look at this , live picture , three cuban , will they be rescue ?
be they try to swim to shore we will
welcome to the second hour .
good morning to you .
a new al qaeda videotape , no doubt chill to the family of the victim .
two of the four pilot who take control of the plane on 9/11 attend a wedding party in hamburg , germany , four year ago 1999 this be .
another one of the pilot , mohamm atta , also believe to be present at this meeting .
throughout the morning , we be look at a remarkable tape right now .
what be believe to be the terror cell responsible for 9/11 .
many member on that tape work together through a cell in germany know as the hamburg cell see in the same room at the same time .
plus the matrix unloaded .
hollywood unleash the special effect extravagance a. we will show you .
stay with we .
major fighting may be over , but many american service man and woman injure in iraq be just begin the very long process of recovery .
besides the naval hospital outside washington , d.c. , have already treat more than 200 marine and sailor from the war in iraq .
19 of they be still there .
i visit some of they only yesterday include one marine whose life be save by a twist of fate .
what strike you about patrick teeterman and so many of he buddy be how young they be .
corporal teeterman , a fresh-faced kid from chicago have a job more important and dangerous than you will find in the hand of most 21-year - old .
i be a sniper platoon lead be for isst battalion naval marine .
reporter : the story of how he get to washington , d.c. , be compelling for several reason , start with how close he come to not be here at all .
i be definitely bless that i be not paralyzed or dead .
reporter : and how close he come to witness history .
24 hour before the fall of baghdad , 24 hour before he fellow marine engage in a fierce firefight at baghdad university , teeterman 's order have he just south of the capital take out iraqi resistance a top a warehouse roof .
there be small pocket of resistance in the area , two , three man group who have ak-47 and possible rpg and what not and we job be to just observe forward and make sure no one be wait to ambush the av or the tank and i be on a metal roof and i step
arthritis .
* * we liberate the people of iraq from a brutal dictatorship .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- we bring greater security to people of all nation .
i want to thank the president for spain 's diplomatic support before the conflict .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- and for the use of spanish air space and basis as the war grow closer .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- i also offer my condolence to the family and friend of the two member of the spanish media who lose they life while cover the hostility .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- both spain and the united state be commit to a stable , democratic and peaceful future for the people of iraq .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- spain have show that commitment by send engineering and medical unit to help the people of iraq .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- and i thank you for that help .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- today , i have move to ease sanction impose by the united state against iraq 's old government .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- first base on the authority recently give to I by congress i be suspend the iraq 's sanction act , which restrict the export of certain commitment necessary for iraq 's reconstruction .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- secondly , be direct the secretary to relax sanction on american country and citizen conduct business in iraq that contribute to humanitarian reconstruction .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- soon , at the u.n. security council , the united state , great britain and spain will introduce a new resolution to lift the sanction impose by the unite nation .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- the regime that the sanction be direct against no longer rule iraq .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- and no country in good conscience can support use sanction to hold back the hope of the iraqi people .
-lsb- trance lay or the speaking -rsb- across the globe , spain and america will continue as strong ally in the war against terror .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- today , the united state take step to cut off financing for the organization because of its tie to the eta .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- we believe that the people of spain like everywhere have a right to live free from terror .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- we will also work for a better world beyond the war on terror .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- we be commit to expand trade which build prosperity on both side of the atlantic .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- we will work together to address global poverty in the terrible disease such as hiv aid .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- spain and the united state will stand on the side of people everywhere strive for greater freedom , tolerance and opportunity .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- we be determine to help build peace between the israelis and the palestinian .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- last week 's confirmation of mazen permit the road map for peace , develop with russia , the european union and the united state .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- spain and the united state be determine to take advantage of this moment of opportunity for peace .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- i be grateful for the wise council and friendship of jose maria aznar .
-lsb- translator speaking -rsb- -lsb- speak spanish -rsb-
`` vanity fair 's '' come lumist daniel fair be here .
quite in the june edition , he describe the journey .
he say he find evidence that hussein 's day of reckon well over due .
christopher hitchen join we from california .
good to have you with we .
thanks for have I .
you journey , particularly to southern iraq , what be evoke there a sense of both that you evoke be a sense of history of this regime .
give we you insight as to what you think the future hold .
do you mean if i start with the past ?
not at you will .
not at all i. not much of a trip .
i be not up the sharp end .
i be not take risk .
i be not in a position that my dear friend be in when he be kill outside bagdad airport but i have long thought and i be in iraq in the previous war that really all the talk that have be about the rush to war , the push for war , the drive for war , all that propaganda , be essentially nonsensical because in 1990 , saddam hussein make the only self criticism .
he say , i could either invade kuwait or finish develop the nuclear weapon .
maybe before the weapon and then later he say , oh , i should have get the nuclear weapon before i invade .
he be right about that .
but that mean that he inaugurate at that point like a dozen-year 's war where the united state could be criticize for do too little and act too slowly but all we be argue about lately be to do with those that should have be finish in '91 when it could have be finish .
should have take the side of the rebel then .
take the risk of support a shiite insurrection at that point .
help the kurd , remove the regime .
absolutely .
we would be 11 year into nation building by now if we would do that .
that seem to be the core of the argument .
as you point out , of course , for the fact of the matter be , the mistake of saddam hussein make possible he removal from power ultimately .
the mistake of the united state , again , as you point out , norman schwarzkopf make a peace , permit helicopter to fly .
still hurt I to read this .
the little town i be in this southern iraq , as far as i get , i can not boast of further , be where the talk take place .
we have the transcript of the meeting .
they say , okay , we have lose this round .
do you mind if we keep you helicopter in the air just to be able to transport thing ?
and he say , yeah , that be all right .
they ask again , be you sure they mean that ?
they can not believe the luck .
they use the gunship to kill , we think , not less than 50,000 inhabitant of southern iraq and try to do that to the kurd , as well , so it be a knife edge .
and it be not just be wise after the event , i believe , to say that there be a argument in realtime between the bush administration member .
mr. cheney 's the only one i know that change he mind .
most of those that take the view at that time , think until recently they be correct in save saddam hussein .
of course , mr. cheney be in the chain of command with swars cough and -- many other .
when they make the decision not to move toward bagdad with bad information .
namely , the republican guard absolutely devastate .
yes .
and , well , we know now the harvest of all that .
it hurt to think of how many wonderful people in iraq at the academic community , lawyer , human rights activist , civilian , intellectual , people -- would now be alive .
who have be horribly murder and tortured and reduce to misery since by a half application of violence through sanction and overflight .
mistake make then , mistake part of human experience , but now we have a opportunity not to make mistake .
be it you sense that the united state be on the right track ?
that there be the prospect here a commitment here on the part of the united state to
the slogan make for a powerful bumper sticker -- gun do not kill people , people do !
but this next story make the case the slogan do not go far enough .
a better one might be , people do and people die and still other people search they soul and struggle for redemption .
the story from `` newsnight be '' beth nissen .
reporter : it be the lead story across connecticut in early april , police say jennifer o'conner , a connecticut woman with a history of psychiatric problem confess to shoot she daughter 7 , while the 7 - year-old girl lay sleep .
o'conner tell police she could no longer cope with she daughter daughter 's learning , disability prp sara dade three day later .
thoma , owner a local gun and motorcycle shop , say he feel gut when he see the news report of o'conner 's vest on murder charge .
as soon as the police officer pull the gun out and hold it up , i know it be my rifle .
reporter : have sell oconer the rifle a few month before .
she explain to I she .
ed a lighter , smaller caliber hunting gun for deer hunting , for medium-size game hunting .
reporter : follow the letter of law .
he send oconeor 's information to the state authority for a background check .
once she be clear , he make o'conner wait for a minimum .
two week .
he
a former fbi informant accuse of be a double agent have be indict .
the charge against katrina leung be the latest in a alleged case of sex , spy , and international intrigue .
charle feldman be in lo angele with detail on this one .
reporter : this be a story that have make the fbi look -- well , kind of dopey .
it have put a spotlight on u.s. / china relation .
like any good spy movie , it be already have a sequel with the first indictment earlier in the week and another one just yesterday .
on thursday , the other shoe drop .
just one day after a former fbi counterintelligence agent be indict on charge of gross negligence , he mistress of two decade , katrina leung , be herself indict on more serious charge of copying and possess document relate to the national security of the united state .
document she allegedly lift on many occasion from the briefcase of she ex-fbi handler , jame smith .
leung 's lawyer waste little time respond to the grand jury indictment .
katrina leung be no matt aharry , as people have suggest .
she be recruit actively by the fbi because of what she could do and because of what she know .
she d not go out to get this job .
reporter : leung , a prominent chinese-american , be practically the toast of l.a. she be seemingly present for just about every event involve local politician , sometimes national one , and various high-ranking official of the chinese government .
that part , at least , be by design .
leung be hire by the fbi and pay almost $ 2 million over 20 year to spy on the chinese .
federal prosecutor now say she pull a fast one and actually spy on the u.s. for the chinese .
this case be a major embarrassment
the wizard may not want jordan , but the head of the expansion team say jordan could run operation there , if he want to .
it be he home state after all .
on wednesday , washington wizard ' owner end the three-year association with jordan .
accord to `` the washington post , '' the meeting degenerate into name-calling after jordan be offer $ 10 million in gratitude over the next five year .
jordan reportedly respond he be not in it for the money .
cnn 's josie karp have the story .
reporter : for the first time since be cut from the team in high school , michael jordan be leave in the awkward position of be unwanted by the game he have come to define .
after play the last two season with the washington wizard , jordan say he expect to return to the front office .
instead , during a meeting that last only minute , team owner tell jordan he service be no longer necessary .
jordan issue a statement express he shock over
a national weeklong terror drill begin in seattle and a industrial lot in the city .
straun with smash car , bus and other debris represent the hypothetical damage from a fan that size radioactive dirty bomb .
the test design to measure the responsiveness of emergency worker to a terrorist attack .
it be be a year and a half since a series of anthrax attack kill five people .
no one have ever be arrest in connection with that case and the fbi be consider drain a maryland pond relate to evidence for those unsolved attack .
kelli arena report .
reporter : the fbi 's interest in this state park in maryland date back to last december .
official get a tip back then that someone may have dump equipment into one of the park 's pond .
official say they find the tip significant because the pond be about ten mile from fort dietrick where the army experiment with anthrax .
agent search the area at least four time since then .
the mayor say the fbi be now consider drain one of the pond .
the police chief dine be in regular contact with the fbi .
there be a number of facet to this investigation .
it be very , very significant .
after all , it be a murder investigation .
multiple murder investigation , so i be sure there be a number of avenue that they be look into .
reporter : accord to government source , agent in december find a large plastic enclose container with large opening on the side .
official say there be no evidence connect anything find in the park to anthrax or the anthrax attack .
nor be there any evidence link any individual to the deadly anthrax ledder .
the fbi have say nothing publicly about anyone it may be investigate , but attorney general john ashcroft do refer publicly to steven hatfield , a former researcher as a person of interest .
he be repeatedly proclaim he innocence and the spokesman tell cnn -- well , the fbi can drain the pacific ocean but they will not find any evidence that he be involve with the attack because he have nothing to do with the anthrax attack at all .
reporter : investigator involve this case clearly frustrated .
18 month later , still not one single arrest for those attack that kill five people and sicken 13 other .
lou ?
kelly , where do this investigation on hatfield stand ?
i mean , we have rather -- i can not think of another case like it .
we have get rather public statement by law enforcement official say that he be the suspect that they think he be the guy athen we have denial and then we have this stuff .
it be really -- really extraordinary .
reporter : well , the attorney general have be the only person that have even mention steven hatfield 's name publicly and he call he a person of interest .
not a suspect .
but
the story of a woman in a east texa jail cell tonight .
we be tell sometimes she sit in the fetal position , other time singing gospel music .
occasionally she will pray , sometimes cry hysterically .
she name be deanna lejeune laney .
she be accuse of beat two of she three child to death because , she say , god tell she to .
now that happen this saturday .
today the wheel of justice begin turn .
katherine garcia of wfaa join from we the smith county courthouse in tyler , texa .
right now , cast we eye to the middle east , get word that a massive assembly of shiite muslim be now come together in beirut , lebanon .
this be a rather remarkable arrangement because they be cheer there the arrival of khatami , the president of iran .
now , he be make a trip and you see he there with he hand raise , there with the cloak on , shake he fist , hand classp there , in a salute to the crowd .
president khatami be in beirut and what be observe here be very closely watch , what kind of word he will utter when he speak to this crowd .
iran now be pressure by the u.s. to back off on support hezbollah .
hezbollah be a organization base in lebanon that have beenify dn dn be tie to terrorist activity and peter bergen mention saudus hezbollah a organization work in that country .
the key be go to fwo see whether or not khatami actually do signal that he be go to be heed the word of president bush and back off in some way in support hezbollah .
that will be a very important development as we continue to watch the mideast peace process between palestinian and israeli develop .
we be see that secretary of state colin powell also travel through the region , try to get regional leader there to put more pressure on the palestinian to stop any terrorist activity that may be happen on they behalf as well in that region .
we will watch and listen very closely to president khatami 's visit there in beirut , lebanon .
move on , president bush on road today , where be campaigning again for a tax cut package .
likely to comment on the develop story in saudi arabia .
chris burn travel with the president , he join we from indianapolis .
hi , chris .
there be some shocking new information about the life of john f. kennedy , both before and during he day in the white house .
the revelation be part of a just publish biography about the 35th president .
we jonathan karl take a look inside the page .
reporter : the revelation about kennedy 's alleged affair with a intern make up just a couple line in historian robert dowd 's 700-plus page biography .
the information come from a single source , a interview with a former kennedy staffer who say she do not remember the intern 's last game .
although he find the report of kennedy 's womanize credible , he believe new information about kennedy 's health problem be more significant .
jfk 's public image be one of youthful vigor but in truth he battle serious medical problem he entire life .
twice before become president he be so sick , a priest be bring in to give he last rite .
while research he new book on jfk , dallic uncovered previously seal medical record that detail the ek tent of he medical trouble and the length he go to conceal they from the public .
there be many story about politician who use political influence to get out of military conflict .
but dallic show he youe he family 's influence to get into the navy just as america be on the verge of world war ii .
in 1941 , he flunk two military medical exam .
he powerful father intervene , get yet another exam .
read the report of he exam , one would think he never have a serious physical problem in he life .
it be a complete whitewash that would never have be possible without he father 's help .
kennedy enter the navy earn hero status for save he ship mate when he boat pt-109 be sink by the japanese .
dallek say kennedy 's brush with death , combine with he t death of he sister and brother , fuel the ambition to lead he to become the youngest person elect president in american history .
kennedy tell a friend before he enter politics , you have get to live every day like it be you last day on earth .
that be what i be do .
jonathan karl , cnn , washington .
and we will have much more on this story come up later today on `` wolf blitzer report . ''
the biographer will be among my guest later today 5:00 p.m. eastern , 2:00 p.m. pacific .
the vice president dick cheney be now speak in washington at a luncheon honor the secretary of defense , donald rumsfeld , the vice president will be present the jimmy doolittle award to the secretary of defense .
we will be monitor to hear what both of they have to say .
we will have some coverage of that come up .
but up next , andrew jackson be get a makeover of sort .
and it be all in the name of fight crime .
we will
as we tell you at the top of this newscast , a oklahoma judge have rule that terry nichol will indeed stand trial in that state court on 160 count of first-degree murder .
the oklahoma city bombing conspirator be already serve a life term in federal prison .
state proceedings could bring the death penalty if nichol be convict .
a trial date be not immediately set by the judge whose decision come as prosecute be still present evidence .
a texas woman be in jail this morning accuse of kill she two son and severely beat another the day before mother 's day .
yesterday a silent dee ana laney wait as the judge read the charge against she .
capital murder and aggravate assault .
one of the first people to arrive at the crime scene .
judge jame marin .
thanks very much .
why be you there so quickly ?
i be not really there that quickly .
i actually respond a few hour after the sheriff 's department do .
the reason you go be ?
well , be the justice of the peace we be the one that hold the inquest on the death and they be require to call we to the scene .
what do you see when you get there ?
well , to be honest with you , i see a pretty gruesome sight and i think it be be talk about quite a bit the last few day and if anybody do not have to be there to see it , they be lucky not to have to be there .
it be a horrific sight , you do not have to go into detail , obviously , we can only imagine how bad it might have be .
it probably be , indeed , base on you eyewitness account .
what happen ?
they be collect evidence as you be there , the law enforcement authority ?
they have be collect they evidence and , of course , when i get there they show I the location and , of course , then have to do
a bomb explode today in a courtroom in southern yeman , injure four people , one of they a judge .
a man with a pistol be arrest outside of the courthouse and police say he admit plan the bomb .
it be the same courtroom where a suspect al qaeda militant get a death sentence last week for kill three american missionary .
several news organization have file for -- they reporter have with scott peterson .
peterson be arrest for the murder of he wife and unborn son after they body wash ashore in california .
he be await trial .
prosecutor be require to notify anyone if they phone conversation may be use as evidence .
peterson 's phone be tap under a court order .
earlier we talk about a new book claim that president john kennedy have a affair with a white house intern early 1960 .
a kennedy biographer robert dallek come across the story while do research .
the woman 's name have remain a mystery .
the 60-year-old tell the new york daily news and other dpa she be glad to have the weight she be be carry for 41 year now off she shoulder .
she say she be 19 at the time , work in d.c. at the white house , 1962 , 1963 , she say today the allegation about she affair be the truth .
right now she live on the upper east side , work at a presbyterian church , have two married daughter and after the news be out , after carry it for 41 year , she feel better about it .
this news break just today .
robert dallek try to do the research to track this woman down in the book , it do not happen but now she have indeed come forward .
in today 's daily news , a 60-year-old woman acknowledge she be the 19-year-old white house intern who sleep with jfk .
she tell the papers , `` i be the mimi . ''
i want to take this opportunity to stand behind the mimi and proclaim my solidarity .
i know where you have be because i too have be there myself .
that be right , i too sleep with jfk .
i be the anderson .
i be bear four year too late to have sleep with jfk ?
technically correct but why quibble over detail ?
be not it possible deep down , that you also sleep with jfk ?
who , I ?
no , i could not have , you protest .
believe whatever you have to .
i be not willing to live that lie any longer .
the truth about we camelot obsess society be each of we in we own way have sleep with the jfk .
only once we admit this to ourselves individually and as a nation can the true healing begin .
a think to end on tonight .
thanks for be with we tonight .
stay with cnn .
`` larry king live '' be next .
we be back .
it be be a few day since we have any new development in the laci peterson case .
it appear we do have something to talk about this morning .
perhaps a search for some new evidence under way .
let 's check in with we rusty dornin , out in modesto , california , with the latest on that .
reporter : we know it be a matter of time before police get back into the water in san francisco bay look for more evidence in the laci peterson case .
that happen this morning .
numerous agency r agency boat with sonar technology and diver into san francisco bay .
they come from the richmond marina as well as the urbuinano island , the coast guard station .
it be be use as a staging area .
they be go to be launch a search for what may be leave in the bay here now .
as you know about a month ago laci peterson 's body wash up right here .
a area call point isabelle .
right across the channel here be a area know as brook island .
they believe -- police say that be where scott peterson tell they that he do go fishing the day that laci peterson do disappear .
now , a source close to the investigation have tell I that what they be really look for be concrete anchor or weight which may have part of laci peterson 's body or clothing or something attach to it .
that they do discover a concrete weight in scott peterson 's wearhouse .
if it match , that would be something that could link scott peterson -- it would be like a smoking gun in this case .
inevitably they be look for something link to laci peterson , whether
he go to scapegoat at breath-taking speed .
today , steve case officially out at aol time warner .
the media giant remain in a rut .
investigator look for answer today at a shareholder meet today in virginia .
as we turn to greg clarkin , we be talk about the home team here , cnn 's parent company , not easy for any of we to talk about .
reporter : hi , kyra .
that be right .
here in northern virginia , a few mile from aol headquarters .
these be a chance for the individual investor to have a chance to vent to management of the company , have they case about where the company be go .
today we hear from a lot of small investor who be still upset over the sink stock price of aol time warner .
this be a stock down more than 70 % over the last three year .
now , we speak to a number of individual investor who voice they con
judith nathan will wake up tomorrow the wife of rudy giulianus .
the couple be prepare to tie the knot at gracie mansion in new york tonight .
mayor michael bloomberg will perform the ceremony .
hundred have be invite and placido domgo will provide the music .
more top story at the top of the hour .
now back to `` next@cnn . ''
a series of commercial people be not as fond of feature carrot top as he pitch for one of the oldest and most rear corporation in the land , at & t. we be train here ?
train you finger to dial up the center .
it be free for you , and cheap for they .
carrot top 's major exposure on the tube be not just something that make we curious .
`` fortune '' magazine look into he commercial appeal .
there must be some .
andy can explain why he be a hot commodity .
no , i can not explain at all .
i want to sound off .
this blow my mind .
probably the most annoying person on the planet .
i do not say that lightly .
the most annoying person on the planet .
here be this old blue chip company that use he as a pitch man .
i have never hear of this guy before they start do these commercial .
now he be more and more famous .
he be hit on girl , advertising long distance .
what this be carrot top ?
do anyone like carrot top ?
it be disgust .
i actually -- he fly under my radar .
i call atlanta to get background on this guy .
the san francisco chronicle do a survey with its reader of most annoying celebrity famous for just be famous .
carrot top .
kathy lee gifford number two .
he have not a celebrity until at & t ever make he one .
anybody call you carrot top ?
auburn top ?
nobody 's a celebrity until the media make he one .
do not be pick on my friend susan .
you be really exercise about this .
he be try to make a living .
have somebody from you magazine spend time with he ?
yes , and hate he as much as everyone else do .
he spend time with this guy and there be stockholm syndrome , he end up like the guy .
maybe he be a nice guy , it do not have to be stockholm syndrome .
in defense of carrot top , he know he be insane and annoying and acknowledge it .
he write carrot top be one of those c list celebrity who worm they way into you consciousness without you know how it happen .
here be a story about a kid who be storm into we consciousness , lebron jame .
the high school basketball phenom out of ohio .
he just sign , only 18 , a senior , have not play one nanosecond in the nba yet .
yet already sign a sneaker deal that ap report be worth more than $ 90 million .
lebron jame be expect to be cleveland 's top pick after they win the number one pick in the nba lottery .
nike be hope the phenom will help boost they sale of basketball shoe to that crucial team market .
and of course everybody be get a opinion whether the kid be go to skip college and go right into the pro , worth this kind of money .
this be mega buck .
they only pay tiger wood $ 40 million for he deal come out of stanford university .
but he have a amateur golf career where he post score and do thing comparable to what be do on the pga tour .
nobody know if this kid can play against shaquille o'neal or not .
nike and nba be look for the next big thing .
it be not only of course he basketball skill , which be unquestionable .
but he personality .
then if in fact the team he ultimately play on , whether the cleveland cavalier , or somebody else , whether they actually be any good .
name the start five of of the cavalier .
i can not , that be my point .
they have the lowest attendance in the nba .
i check it out .
this guy ,
as we say , earlier this week , christine todd whitman step doup and now a whole lot of analysis be take place as to why she step down , the job she be do when she be in office and the job that have yet to be complete .
from we new york bureau as i be introduce a moment ago , dan fagen , the environment writer for news day and dan , whitman do consider herself sort of the republican environmentalist .
but now there be be a awful lot of monday night quarterback quarterback take place now that she be tep down .
what do you suppose take place here ?
i think many people have watch thisstration in action and watch chis tee whitman in action .
the mystery be that she take the job in the first place or do not leave earlier .
she be quite a misfit for this administration , and she show that over and over .
she be not good at all at communicate the administration 's message to the public and certainly to the environmental group and she be even worse at bring the epa bureaucracy , the epa environmental policy maker ' message to this administration because she see herself undercut over and over .
that be interesting because lead into it , while she be new jersey governor , she sue the epa and she be very much consider herself to be a environmentalist , and then only to end up become the head of the epa and then of course , there be a lot of criticism over relax regulation .
let 's hear what she have to say last wednesday here on cnn just after announce she resignation .
i be not leave because of clash with the administration , in fact , i have not have any .
i report to the president , and he have always ask I to give he my best unadulterated advice .
we have have be on the same page .
i be never supportive of protocol because it do not do what everyone need to get do as far as climate change be concern .
i be leave now because it be the appropriate time to do it .
dan , do you agree with that ?
she say the appropriate time .
do you suppose for personal reason or perhaps she be out of step with the administration ?
i be sure that it be difficult for she personally , but i think the commuter marriage perhaps would have be less stressful if everyday she do not see herself be undermine and overruledd .
i mean if christy whitman and the white house be on the same page , i do not think i have see a book large enough to contain a page that big .
over and over there be many , many instance over the last
let 's talk a little bit more about what the navy do to prevent such tragedy .
we be talk about it this morning and we put together some graphic for you .
i will try to explain it the best i can from what i remember from be on the `` uss abraham lincoln '' this be a amphibious ship , rather , but this be what the navy do with regard to prevention .
everybody that be , every sailor that be enterse the navy do take a swim test .
they learn how to tread water and do the dead man float and they have to pass that in order to continue on .
also drill take place before sailor get on to any ship , before any deployment , usually twice a day , they be practice man overboard drill , know where to go , where to report to if indeed a man overboard take place and as the deployment begin , those wane off , but they know where to go quickly .
they also wear float coat .
you can see they here .
the yellow shirt be wear a yellow float coat .
everything be color coordinate .
you see the gentleman here wear a brown one and they have toggle to pull and inflate .
they also have a manual device so if the toggle do not work they can blow air into the inflation device .
they have dive goggles and they be able to find they .
it also have a strobe light and a whistle .
also such location device , some ship have smoke float they can toss out so the man overboard will be able to use smoke signal as a way of try to find or locate , let the rescuer locate they .
also 24/7 there be individual on watch .
all throughout the ship , all around the ship .
and indeed , there be net on most part of the ship , not on entire all around the entire ship , but on most part there be a very thick net .
now let 's talk about the man overboard rescue and when indeed there be a man overboard situation .
you will hear a p.a. announcement around the entire ship .
there be a man overboard so everyone know they have to react quickly .
a ship-wide search will happen f. they do not see that person go overboard , but if indeed they do see someone go overboard , the ship start to circle that area continuously .
also small boat sometimes go out into the water , but even more importantly , helicopter be launch immediately .
inside those helicopter rescue imswimmer .
if indeed the man overboard be located , well the hoister be drop down with usually a torso harness .
if the man overboard be injured then they may use a basket , but more than likely those swimmer will go right into the water and try and help the swimmer hook up on that harness and pull they up into the helo and pull they back on to the ship for treatment and usually a search take about 24 hour .
the search crew will go 24 hour before call off that search .
why call it off ?
there be a number of reason to look at .
depend on the water temperature , it be very possible that or very common in cold water that someone will not survive a certain amount of time .
also the reason for the 24-hour search be they fail they have exhaust all resource by that time .
anyway , we will continue to follow what be happen on the `` uss nassau '' as those investigation continue for the two miss sailor .
night open on the `` uss john c. stennis . ''
on this deployment they primarily fly after dark so the ship 's schedule be upside down , the crew sleep by day and work all night .
this be day two of war time operation for the `` stennis '' and `` operation iraqi freedom . ''
for the next 12 hour into the morning , plane from the carrier will fly mission over afghanistan .
there be only a faint orange light on deck , punctuate by this .
to adjust they eye for night vision , crew member make they way through passageway glowing in dim red light .
on the flight deck , a walkover check for debris be light only by flashlight .
the danger of the flight deck be blow overboard by jet , slight slice by propeller or other hazard that be hard enough to avoid in daylight be all the more intense at night .
the intricate coordination of launch and recovery play out as a dance in the darkness .
the complexity of it all have be describe as a ballet and if it be a ballet , the choreographer of the flight deck be this man here .
he be the handler .
adrenaline be high on the flight deck of this carrier at war .
soon after dawn on this fourth day , confirmation of the ship 's first strike .
fourth day of combat operation today bear fruit for the air wing and the ship team here .
we have f-14 aircraft drop laser-guided bomb , f-18s drop joint direct attack munitions or j-dam weapon into eastern afghanistan today this be the first of a unknown number of strike we will conduct during we watch in `` operation enduring freedom . ''
they will come back high fiving and feeling pretty good about it but it be a bit of a somber event that they be go through out here .
but the biggest thing you be see be the intensity .
reporter : the fighter jet drop they ordnance in a coordinate atack on a convoy near the afghan city of choft .
the pentagon say the convoy be taliban and al qaeda troops .
there be a attack on a convoy of leadership that be identify through various intelligence mean .
that be do within the last 24 hour .
reporter : but the strike prove controversial .
local afghan in the convoy say it be a group of elder on they way to the inaugural ceremony for interim afghan leader hamid karzaus .
analyst believe some tribal warlord may have take advantage of american firepower by accuse ing rife aal leader of be taliban and misguide u.s. intelligence .
the consequence of injure or hurt someone who be friendly or nonparticipant in combat be very difficult to deal with .
a. and we go extreme detail in -- and do a lot of training as well to make sure that do not happen .
we have drop ordnance today .
and i be sure we will continue to drop ordnance .
and do it with precision , do it with accuracy , and do it on call when need first time every time .
holy , holy , holy reporter : as the `` john c. stennis '' end its first week of operation in the arabian sea , christmas be only a few day away .
though a choir rehearse in the chapel for a christmas event , for the crew , it be another workday , they first day off will not be for another three week .
it be another day for I .
when i be out here , i do not look at a calendar , i do not think about it .
i stay busy at work .
reporter : but there be other chance for the smip to gather like this moment of pride to honor sailor who earn a promotion in rank .
it be call a frocking ceremony .
there be a sense of respect that you will agree as you walk around this crew be there .
as they take care of one another the whole community come together they follow together as a team or they win together as a team .
and i always encourage they to take care of themselves .
because if they do not care of themselves , then it kind of all fall apart at the seam .
reporter : last time we see this sailor he be wash dish in the ghalus .
now he be be promote .
and pilot sarah `` clutch '' joiner and russ `` glady '' knight say they final good-bye .
goggles down , let 's go .
reporter : before board a cargo flight off the `` uss stennis . ''
they will be home in time for christmas .
i have be here for four and a half year .
it be probably time to go .
but i be go miss they .
they be pretty much my family right now , or my family away from my family .
reporter : savor every last minute on the ship , commander knight rush to the flight only seconds before the door close .
have be the best tour of my life .
19 year in the navy , it have be the best tour of my life .
reporter : for the rest of the crew , there be five more month to go in this deployment .
and no one know how long america 's new war on terrorism will keep the `` uss john c. stennis '' engage in battle .
on highest alert as a carrier at war .
we continue with the pride and professionalism we have show to date , we can not do anything but be successful .
please make sure you take care of you ship , take care of yourselve ,
first a update on a long run air safety investigation a year and a half near a airline crash near new york 's kennedy airport there be controversy whether the disaster could have be avert .
265 people die in the november 2001 crash of flight 587 .
hard to forget those image .
after the pilot lose control of the plane , and the jet 's tail fin break off .
airbus strongly deny claim it fail to provide sufficient warning .
but critic say airbus should have sound a stronger alarm after a similar incident occur in 1997 .
that be when american airline flight 903 run into trouble on a trip from boston to miami .
the pilot of that plane forcibly apply they rudder to recover from a stall , and as a result the plane 's tail section exceed its design limit .
pilot manage to land safely , only after a terrifying ordeal for passenger .
melanie joyceon join we from dalla .
thanks for be with we .
can you tell I about the flight five year ago .
what happen to you ?
more now on the louisiana serial killing .
and the arrest of the prime suspect , derrick lee tee lee w. '' be join on the phone by the police chief of atlanta .
can owe tell we exactly the detail , the precise detail of how you arrest the suspect ?
yes , we can .
first of all , member of my fugitive unit have be look for the suspect , derrick lee all day base on information we receive from the baton rouge police chief and the serial murder task force back in the state of louisiana .
this evening , about 8:45 p.m. , member of my fugitive unit receive a telephone call from a informtive say they think that they have observe the suspect derrick lee in the area of wood drive and donald lee holland parkway in southwest atlanta .
the officer respond to that location .
notice a suspect fitting the description , approach derrick lee .
ask for identification .
derrick lee produce louisiana identification .
he be arrest without incident .
take into custody and he be currently at atlanta police department headquarters pend extradition back to the state of louisiana .
and just to be clear , exactly where -- what kind of facility be it that you arrest he at ?
he be in the rear of a tire shop .
it be sort of like a mall area , but he be hang around a tire shop .
a automotive tire shop , and someone notice he , recognize he .
make a call to the fugitive unit .
we go out this evening about 8:45 , and sure enough , he be the person we be look for all day .
and what
it be be four year since the u.s. woman 's soccer team make history win the world cup before more than 90,000 fan at the rose bowl .
everybody remember that scene .
brandy chastain 's kick and mia hamm rip the shirt off .
the super bowl of woman 's soccer be return to the u.s. after concern about sar in china prompt a change in venue for this year 's tournament .
lynn morgan president of the soccer association be one of those who have the job of organize this global event that have only get four month to get put together instead of four year as usual and she join we from atlanta this morning .
you see she there .
in washington , with we now be mia hamm , one of the star of the '99 u.s. team .
she be now play for the washington freedom of the wusa .
lady , thanks for come out and talk with we this morning .
mia , when you hear the news about china now say they want the u.s. to run the tournament , when you hear that , do you think this be a pleasant surprise or you get to be kid ?
well , security be tight as exxon mobil shareholder meet today in dallas .
allan chernoff live from the new york stock exchange to tell we what be behind the precaution .
we have get controversy at this meeting .
exxon mobil shareholder set to vote on resolution deal with step to promote global energy and the risk of global warming .
management , not surprisingly , oppose the resolution .
environmentalist be pressure the oil giant not to drop it be greenhouse emission limit .
yesterday , protester block the entrance to protest what they claim be the company 's inaction against global warming .
exxon mobil maintain it do take the issue skreersly and it be be target unfairly zblen ron also engage in a blame game .
who be the latest target ?
very also story with enron .
a source tell we enron be consider sue its own investment banker for give it bad financial advice .
of course , the notorious energy trader be the subject of a slew of investigation for alleged financial trickery .
enron may actually try to blame its banker , include jpmorgan chase and citigroup , for dish out advice that actually help the company 's downfall .
the latest move here be part of a new bush by enron 's new chief executive to settle pend litigation .
jpmorgan , citigroup , and other adviser have already be sue by shareholder and they also face regulatory investigation .
let 's turn we attention to wall street .
we have get some green arrow here .
stock be struggle to hold on to modest gain right now .
we have get solid corporate profit report today .
and of course a little momentum after yesterday 's rally .
and let 's have a look at the dow jone industrial average .
it be up by a little more than five point .
it be be zig and zag between green and red .
right now , hold on to the green .
and the nasdaq composite also in positive territory right now , still .
the nasdaq at its highest level in nearly
president bush head to the g-8 summit in france on friday with victory over saddam hussein and in he pocket and a soar approval rating by the american public , but do european share the same enthusiasm for the president ?
we senior political analyst bill schneider report on the result of a brand new poll .
a defense attorney call it he worst nightmare .
a convict murderer be release from prison before serve he full sentence and then a nightmare become reality .
it happen last week .
michael sear be determine to prove he be no longer a threat .
he psychiatrist back he up .
serious be serve a 30-year sentence for the self-confessed 1992 killing of he wife in clinton , maryland , but after a relentless campaign that include a letter from he psychiatrist say serious be unlikely to commit such violence again , the judge in this case , get he release .
he serve less than nine year .
maryland be the only state that allow unchecked judicial reconsideration , allow judge to reduce prison term at any time after sentencing .
those favor the rule say it give convict incentive to behave in prison and enable judge to release prisoner if new evidence come to light .
at some point after he release , michael serious befriend a woman name darlene williamson .
last week williamson , a mother of four , be find stab to death at a condominium in greenbelt , maryland .
the official resident of that condo , the man now charge with she murder , michael serious .
today the judge in the case retire prince george county circuit court judge issue a statement to the news media .
he call the case and i be quote now , a judge 's worst nightmare , but he note that maryland parole board and the facility where michael serious be hold , the institution make what the judge call the final decision on whether to release serious .
the psychiatrist , by the way , who write a letter on michael serious ' behalf , neil blumberg have a two-word response in a article in the washington post .
my goodness , he be pretty surprise .
serious ' defense attorney who persuade the judge reduce the sentence , tell the post and i be quote , i be very saddened .
it make I sick as a defense attorney .
as a defense attorney it be you worst nightmare .
let 's get perspective on this shocking case .
glen i ` vey be the prince george county , maryland , state attorney .
it do not get more shocking than this .
how could this happen ?
move ahead now to a develop story , the hunt for so-called smoking gun , mean to prove that iraq be develop weapon of mass destruction .
here 's national security correspondent david ensor .
reporter : while u.s. force still have not find any weapon of mass destruction , the new cia pentagon report say official be now confident the mysterious truck fill with high-tech equipment find in iraq be indeed mobile biological weapon production facility , just as secretary of state powell predict and present the unite nation before the war .
it be very important to recognize that program that we have say exist do exist .
reporter : though no trace of biological toxin be find in the truck , u.s. intelligence official say they have largely eliminate any other possible use for the fermenter and other equipment .
not everyone be convince .
they could very well be biological weapon production facility , but i do not think the intelligence community have make a open and shut case .
reporter : the cia-pentagon report admit the truck be not a efficient way to produce biological weapon , but official argue the point for the iraqis be to produce some and not to be catch do it .
this be clearly a very inefficient way to produce anthrax .
and the question be why do they invest such resource in a mobile
israeli prime minister ariel sharon and palestinian prime minister mahmoud abba schedule to meet today , they second chance now to discuss the bush administration 's road map more mideast peace .
both side will meet with president bush when he arrive in the mideast next week .
we jerusalem bureau chief mike hanna standing by with more and that .
mike ?
well , they 15 minute on top of the world bring they 50 year of fame .
today , sir edmund hillary be name a honorary citizen of nepal .
to mark he historic climb to the top of mt. everest with sherpa norgay .
there be concern climb everest have become too common , and perhaps a bit too commercial .
i do not think we have that .
we do not have anything to demonstrate that commercialality .
all right , let 's show you a little bit mt. everest , the highest summit on the planet .
some 3d imagery .
there , you see , the big picture of the southern part of asia .
we will bring you down into the he la ya .
20 million year ago , they be form when india break off what be then a piece of africa and slam into that portion of asia , create this tremendous mountain range , with of course mt. everest at 29,000 foot above sea level .
the highest peak of they all .
this 3d animation kind of exaggerate it a little bit .
what i should tell you be there be about 15 possible route to get you to the top of mt. everest .
what sir edmund hillary do and norgay do be go along this route that take they across this valley -- you have to turn the picture this way a little bit , shoot back over this range , and bring you up in here .
then i will try to give you my best guess tell station .
basically , right along this ridge line up to 29,000 foot , into thin air , as it be popular coin by the book by the name of john crack cower a few year ago .
since that , a lot of peek have try , a lot of people have succeed .
175 people have die try to reach the summit of mt. everest .
we be join by we guest -- where be we guest , by the way ?
who be in kathmandu .
and how 's the party go there ?
be you there ?
aol time warner and microsoft be bury the hatchet .
allan chernoff live from the new york stock exchange with more .
bring we up to speed .
aol time warner , of course , we parent company .
exactly in question about that .
bill gate and dick parson , the ceo of these two company , smoke a peace pipe right now .
the company settle a lawsuit .
aol time warnering we corporate parent , will get $ 750 million from microsoft .
the software giant pay to settle charge it use its monopoly power in after to block the aol netscape browser .
as part of the deal , microsoft will license its browser to aol for seven year without charge royalty .
aol be allow to collaborate with microsoft on make they interest mess anger work smoothly together .
so , $ 750 million , that be a whale of a company christmas party .
what be they really go to be do with the money ?
if you do not spend it all on a
if you be just start you week , good morning , once again .
7:30 up and down the east coast .
welcome back to `` american morning . ''
overcae -- overseas , president bush will leave france in a few hour 's time after a second meeting face-to-face in private with french president jacque chirac today .
the president call that meeting helpful and say the disagreement between the united state and france over iraq do not mean the two country have to be disagreeable .
mr. bush travels next to egypt and he will enter middle east peace talk at middle east .
he say he will spend as much time as necessary to achieve peace between the israelis and palestinian .
a key trip continue for the week .
want to say hello again to daryn right ?
five motion be be hear today in the case of lee boyd malvo , the teenage sniper suspect .
one for a change of venue .
defense attorney argue that there have be so much pretrial publicity , include a alleged confession from malvo , that this have taint the jury pool .
they more intriguing argument be that one of the charge against malvo be under virginia 's anti-terrorism statute and they argue that every resident of fairfax county be potentially a member of the victim 's class .
and therefore , disqualify from serve as a juror .
the prosecutor will argue against this motion .
he call it factually pro po truss .
if history be any guide , this motion will have a tough time .
no case have be move out of fairfax county since 1974 .
there also be a motion to dismiss this case .
defense attorney argue that a individual can not be charge under federal law and then state law for the same act .
prosecutor again will argue against the motion .
three other motion as well .
one of those for a handwriting expert , the other motion relate to get background information relate to ballistics testing and dna testing .
malvo on trial here in fairfax county for the murder of linda franklin , the fbi analyst who be gun down in a home depot parking lot .
that be just one of the ten sniper shooting here in the greater washington area .
today 's motion hear just part of the preliminary skirmishing .
the actual trial will be get under way this fall .
jeanne meserve , cnn , fairfax county , virginia .
we be come up on 23 after the hour on what be shape up to be a busy day here .
but a joyous day for 5,000 sailor and marine and friend and family in the san diego , california area because the giant u.s. carrier constellation be now return home from the war in iraq .
frank buckley be in san diego and join we now with the latest scene from there and the live picture .
hi , frank .
reporter : leon , yet another day of incredible home come .
this time the `` uss constellation '' come up .
they be come home for the last time to san diego .
it be schedule for decommission in august .
let I give you a sense of the excitement among family .
look at these folk who have not see they family member for seven month as the constellation be over in the persian gulf .
let I take you up top to give you a larger view of how many folk be here at lima pier .
we be expect some 15,000 people to greet the `` uss constellation '' as it come home .
among the people that will be here to greet those folk , there be always the first-kisser , the people who win the first-kiss lottery and the new dad .
we will talk to one of the winner of the first kiss contest .
this be tammy , you husband be david .
we have little alisa here .
she be 4 year old tell .
congratulation .
say hi .
reporter : you be tell I you spend 30 or $ 40 -- $ 30 or $ 40 to get here .
the question i ask you earlier , who get the first kiss do you ?
she have agree , i get to have it and she get she daddy .
tell I what it feel like to have he almost home .
i feel complete .
i be whole again .
my better half be here .
reporter : that be a wonderful thing to say .
when you hear they be finally about to leave harm 's way , can you give viewer a sense of what that be like for you personally to get that news ?
complete relief .
they be head home .
reporter : and what have it be like know you get the first kiss , be you nervous ?
do you remember how to do it ?
to a point i be nervous but i just want he in my arm .
reporter : happy birthday .
say thank you .
thank you .
reporter : there be also 106 new dad , and among they be the dad of look at this beautiful boy who just wake up .
this be -- this be trebian .
mom be felicia , typhus be the new dad .
you be tell I this little beautiful boy be bear two day after deployment .
after deployment .
he be bear on november 4th .
and they deploy on november 2nd .
yes .
and you guy have try or have hope , pray it would -- he would -- we be pray that he would get here on time , unfortunately he miss it , but through e-mail , picture , he actually see he grow , so it turn out to be okay .
it be just like he be there .
this be you second one he have miss .
yes , this be the second one he have miss .
and the last .
well we will have a chat with david or not david with typhus .
thank you very much .
we appreciate it .
you get a sense of the excitement here , the folk as the home coming be set to get under way here at lima pier in san diego .
leon ?
i be amaze .
i never have -- cease to amaze I how kid can sleep anywhere .
that little kid be go to sleep with all that racket go off around you .
amazing .
any idea how many baby be out there , frank ?
how many baby ?
yes .
well , we know that -- i do not know how
let 's go live now to the launch of a rocket .
atop it a european mar observetory .
mar express , it be call .
let 's watch the launch .
it be a little before midnight there right now .
there it go .
the mar express on its way on a seven-month journey to the red planet , contain really two spacecraft .
a orbit ter call mar express .
it will operate orbit the red planet for a couple of year .
it also have a lander know as beagle two , name after charle car win which he sail to the island and go into its bit of fame .
the eagle two will sit on the surface of mar for about six month , if all go well , it will dig around , probe around , anize rock and search for sign of water .
if you find water , you be very likely to find sign of life .
there you see some a my nation of what will happen about seven month from now as this tiny little lander drop off the entire say craft be about five foot in any direction .
not much bigger than a fairly large shipping crate .
now , it will auguster into the surface of the red planet and but those sample into various scientific instrument .
that datum will be send back to the european space agency in germany .
this be the first european mission to mar .
there have be , of course , several american mission , one japanese and one by the zef yot union .
and with some very limited success .
mar be a tough place to explore .
you will recall december of 1988 1988 -- 1998 , i should say , the mar polar lander have a very unsuccessful conclusion to its flight to the red planet .
which be part of a disaster mar season .
president bush be go to be meet with several arab leader .
that happen next hour in a summit focus on a israeli-palestinian peace initiative .
mr. bush be expect to win support for he peace make campaign in the middle east crisis .
earlier today , he say a solution should not be derail by `` a few people a few killer , a few terrorist . ''
join we now to discuss that be rob sabatus , ed a a a adjunct professor at georgetown university .
good to see you this morning , professor .
be you optimistic that president bush be actually go to , at this time , take the step and say what have to be say to remove the skepticism that the arab leader be bring to the summit ?
and investigator in taiwan raise more question about the disintegration and crash of a china airline jet last may .
all 225 people aboard be kill .
a probe have determine the plane have metal fatigue crack and metal corrosion .
investigator say the crack may have be the result of a runway accident 20 year earlier .
move onto the laci peterson case bill , a unusual request from scott peterson 's attorney .
a pair of laci peterson 's missing shoe could be very important evidence in scott 's murder trial .
she ask anyone who find the pair to give they back .
no sign of gerago or peterson in court yesterday when a judge be consider whether to unseal warrant obtain before scott peterson 's arrest .
peterson await trial in the murder of he wife lace sand they unborn son .
join we , beth cara .
good morning once again .
thanks for be with we .
in the african nation of nigerium , a islamic court delay the appeal of a woman condemn to death by stone .
the court say it will not hear this case until late august .
the 31-year-old mother of three be convict in march of have sex outside of marriage .
three other nigerian also face stone death for the same crime .
the prosecution of premarital or extramarital sex be not quite as rare as you might think .
we next guest this morning face 100 lash for premarital sex in pakistan .
she be there as a journalist in the wake of the 9/11 attack .
she have write about she experience in the book `` tantrika '' travel the road of divine love .
a travel reporter now on leave and join we to tell she story .
thank you for come in to share this with we .
as i understand it , you say you be face a sentence of 100 lash , have not yet be sentence that ?
martha stewart be one of those story that be in the news big time again .
she resign as chairman and ceo of martha stewart living , omnimedia , the company that bear she name .
after plead not guilty to a laundry list of charge bring by the justice department and the sec , insider trading , obstruction of justice , conspiracy to hide what they say be a illegal stock sale , we be talk about 4,000 share of stock that net she about $ 225,000 .
how do this compare with other corporate scandal ?
enron 's bankruptcy cost thousand of people they job and they life savings and kenny lay and the chairman and president , both of that company remain unindicted .
the chief financial officer be the only one there take the fall .
worldcom once employ 80,000 people and go break on the largest corporate bankruptcy in the united state .
bernie ever be live he life and unindicted .
the ceo take the fall there .
tyco 's ceo and president denni kozlowskus and the last time i look , he be sail around martha vinyard on he yacht .
at the time , martha stewart be worth in the neighborhood of $ 1 billion , so you could make the argument she might have be guilty of stupidity .
but the question be she be unfairly single out for prosecution ?
the e-mail address be am@cnn.com .
and i be sure we will hear from many of you and we will select some of the response and share they with you a bit later .
what make something worth a billion dollar have to grab the phone after lose two grand with a fall stock price ?
it could be arrogance or factor of be a powerful woman and the celebrity
that stand ovation that sammy sosa get at wrigley field last night .
a major league baseball official be skilledd to conduct interview in chicago .
those interview could be a factor as the league decide how sammy sosa will be punish for use a court-filled bat .
we gary tuchman be live .
good morning .
reporter : the cub 's player this afternoon , once again , sammy sosa will be in the lineup but he could find out as early as today what he punishment will be and how many game he will be suspend for .
last night when he go to play for the first time , most of the fan on wrigley field give he a standing ovation .
in all fairness , not all of they totally believe sammy sosa but he be a hero here and they want to believe sammy sosa .
he hit the ground ball on the first inning , that score a run , but the run be take away .
sosa be quick out of the game after he be find out he have a cork during the bat .
he mean not to use it during the game , but he do use it during the game .
major league baseball take 76 of he bat and x-ray they for cork .
those x race be negative .
that be conduct by a trained radiological technician .
we believe the x-ray process be sufficient to determine the state of those bat and we be very confident that all of those bat be clean and have no foreign substance within they .
it be a mistake .
we be all human and we all make a mistake .
nobody 's perfect in this world upon .
reporter : last night with the bat , we assume be not cork , sammy sosa strike out the first three time up .
he do hit a single in the ninety inning in a lose effort for the chicago cub .
back to you .
there be a concern with the huge series there this weekend with the yankee come to town that sammy would be suspend during that .
the yankee vpt be to wrigley field since the 1930 since they play the cub in the 1930 .
sosa could get a suspension , but he could appeal suspension .
so if he want to play against the yankee , he probably will be able to .
gary tuchman in chicago .
thanks so much .
let 's bring jack back in with the question of the day and bill 's also join we from d.c. .
hello , william .
over you shoulder , jack .
keep a eye on we .
martha stewart unfairly single out for prosecution or be she get what she deserve ?
jim in new york , i have des piesed martha stewart for year before the imclone scandal , but all this prosecution do be how bias prosecutor be when they deal with mogul who strip the hope of investor .
ceo , sleaze walk free , market should be free to stroll right along with they into the ceo hall of shame .
joe in michigan , prosecute , when you skit in life be profess trust and integrity and you violate that responsilibity to you believe public , then you should be do .
jude nith florida , say eye never like martha , but now she be a part of good
all lumber , no filler .
that be the verdict after baseball official x-ray sam why sosa 's entire inventory of bat and find no evidence of cork or any other substance .
that seem to support he contention that the bat get he eject tuesday night be a fluke .
still a decision on what , if any punishment he will face in the wake of that incident tuesday night .
gary tuchman standing by in chicago , with the latest on the sosa saga outside of wrigley field .
reporter : leon , hello to you .
three hour from now the chicago cub take the field against the tampa bay devil ray here at wrigley field and sammy sosa will be out there with they but how long will he ?
we could find out today .
he punishment , suspension for use a corked bat for use -- which be illegal during a game .
since the incident 33,000 fan in the stand for a night game he receive a standing ovation from almost all of they .
i hear a few boo but almost everyone standing .
not everyone believe this man 's story , which be it be a mistake but he be a hero here .
these people want to believe he story .
it happen tuesday night .
in the first inning he hit a ground ball .
score a run .
when he hit the ball , the bat break .
the umpire find cork in the bat .
it be illegal because when you put it in the bat it make the meat lighter .
they hollow out the bat and stick the cork in there to mask the hollow sound .
then you can swing it lighter and you can swing it faster .
they take 76 of he bat for analysis .
they x-ray the bat .
the x-rays all come back negative .
but do major league baseball have all of sammy sosa 's bat ?
we be , as i say , confident , base on not only the presence of security in the club house but also the level of cooperation , the record keep that we review and so forth , that we have all of the bat .
so i do not want anyone to misconstrue what i say .
it be conceivable because we do not have physical presence in the club house that we do not have they all but we be very confident that we do .
i be man enough to take everything that i have do for .
and i still walk yesterday like a man and take the blame .
but the media today , they get it like i be a criminal and that be something that really bother I and hurt I as a man .
reporter : now , why do sammy sosa have this corked bat ?
well , he say he have it because he use it for batting practice to put on a show for the fan .
they ask he how many time he be use it during batting practice and he say three or four time .
that raise the question do major league baseball have a rule about use corked bat during batting practice .
we ask
let 's look now at a potential rise star from the next generation in the sport realm .
the national basketball association hold its draft on the 26th of this month .
ohio high school player , high school , we say , lebron jame , will be the top dog .
most likely draft by the cleveland cavalier get the first pick because of they status .
jame already score back in a $ 90 million nike deal .
$ 90 million .
but when bafblgt ball fan be ask in a cnn / `` usa today '' poll just how good jame will be , 18 % say he will be among the best .
slim margin .
most think he will be very good .
another 18 % be convince he will be just average or below .
skeptical fan .
as for that $ 90 million shoe contract with nike , it may be a good deal for jame .
no doubt about that .
33 % of basketball fan see it as a bad deal for nike .
they must know something about shoe .
martha stewart be not the only corporate figurehead in the news today .
the jury have hand down a $ 30 million , a grand rapid jury say taco bell have to pay the true creator of the chihuahua mass cot .
two man claim they idea originate , and prove i be in the wrong business .
taco ball be appeal .
join I be tom rink with he attorney john doza .
tom , you have get to be happy with the settlement .
i know they be go to appeal , but first et tell my how you calm up with the chihuahua character ?
joe and myself , he be the partner , we be look to design some licens to put on some t-shirt , and at the time big dog be big , and all the mean dog , and no fear be a big hit , and we think it be time for a bit of a change for the 18-24 crowd .
so we actually take the opposite of all that , and look for the smaller , weakest , most timid animal , and try to make he cool , try to make he big .
and we know if he give he some spunk , everybody would root for he .
how do the taco bell folk run into you ?
they actually come to we at a licensing show .
we have be license to a bunch of different manufacturer , and in 1996 we be at a show in new york city where nick loada and universal studio , and taco bell walk up to we and say they be look for a mass cot for they brand and this would be perfect .
that start a year relationship we have with they .
and it go on for a year , and you think it do not pan out and then you pick up a trade paper and read they be go ahead with it ?
after we finalize all the commercial , and actually do the campaign for they , they hire a new ad agency , and telephone call just start stagger off .
then they stop come , and we ahead imp the ad , and they be exactly what we have present for over a year .
when you first hear that , or read that , do you just go ballistic ?
i mean , no offense , but it be you and one other guy who create this thing .
they be a huge , huge corporation .
yeah , it be devastate , to say the least , but we really do not know
we begin tonight talk about the way the justice system deal with those accuse or suspect of terrorism , and we will talk more about that in just a moment .
first , though with some believe be a case in point from tampa , florida , samuel arianna a former college professor in florida who be arrest in february and charge of be a north america head of a palestinian group islamic jihad .
he be tell today he will have he dmai court .
only he day in court will not come until january 2005 .
lawyer for the three man arrest with he say they need that much time to go over the government 's evidence and prepare they case .
two of the indict man be out on bond , but samiel aryan and other defendant be hold without bond which be to say they will stay in jail until the trial start in roughly 18 month .
this conflict over individual liberty and national security be hardly new .
president lincoln deal with it during the civil war , f.d.r. do in world war ii , and it be often true that decision make in the heat of a moment , a war or after a attack look pretty good at the time , not so good as time pass .
whether that be true now , we can not say .
other , however , have thought and mr. barr be among they .
a republican from the state of georgia .
former prosecutor and about the last person on the planet that you would ever call ably liberal .
he join we tonight .
we be always glad to see he .
congressman , good evening .
we now return to `` people in the news . ''
reporter : for martha stewart seem business be everything .
and everywhere .
stewart have find the road to fortune wherever she have travel .
i think the temptation for any successful entrepreneur to go global .
reporter : she marketing vision also include kmart a company that recently emerge from bankruptcy .
okay , girl .
reporter : stewart be associate with kmart since 1987 and be very successful .
the goal have be to bring affordable style to the masse there be a reason she be successful .
and the stuff that she be create people like .
it be good .
it be useful .
it be appealing .
it be attractive and it be cheap .
reporter : even as kmart struggle through financial difficulty , stewart stick by the company .
it be hard to run out on a partner that be down .
that be not we style .
reporter : now stewart be hope people do not run out on she .
the celebrity indict on charge stem from the sale of imclone stock .
stewart and former imclone ceo sam waksal share a broker who now also face charge of obstruction of justice and perjury .
she defense have be that she have a standing sell order at $ 60 and when the stock fall below 60 the broker suppose to , you know make the trade .
she be be stand with that story .
the broker standing by that story .
the only reason it be not hold be because there be other people that the merrill lynch that investigate and do not find proof that be actually the case .
reporter : after stewart be charge by federal authority wednesday , she lawyer issue a statement in which they say , quote , martha stewart have do nothing wrong .
the accusation that martha stewart sell the imclone share base on inside information prove to be false .
if she lie , then that be the obstruction of justice charge .
that be the criminal side .
that be where the prison time come in .
reporter : for stewart , the fallout from the past year take a tremendous toll .
martha stewart tell I that the investigation itself have cost she about $ 400 million .
in decline in she stock , legal fee , and lose business opportunity .
reporter : ironic , consider the sale of the imclone stock result in a gain of less than $ 50,000 .
she will never fully recover .
you know , it be almost like e.g. you get off the hook , but be you really off the hook because people always believe you be guilty .
and it be hard to win back that sort of brand equity that she be lose .
reporter : stewart be vow to clear she name of the charge .
she be so focused and so determine that this investigation , while terribly upset , have not be something that be stand in she way .
as only she would , she say , look , i do not lose any sleep .
i still sleep my three or four hour a night .
reporter : he say stewart be still take aback by the reaction to she legal trouble .
i think she be be stun at how much joy so many people have take at she misfortune .
she do not quite understand that the perfectionism that make she so famous also make people say , oh , be not it fun to see someone like that have a big , big problem ?
reporter : a perfectionism reflect in even the smallest detail of stewart 's life .
martha do not like to talk about how unpleasant thing have be , but you can get signal of it in surprising way .
when we sit down to lunch , she have put out these beautiful chop stick which i comment orion .
she say , in china , the person with the thinnest chop stick have the highest social status .
and of course , i have to get the thinnest chop stick .
then she pause and say , that be why people hate I .
reporter : love she or hate she , martha stewart have tie every aspect of she image to she business .
even she daily calendar turn into a marketing tool .
she say to I once that my life be `` the truman show '' and mean i be always on .
from the time i get up until i go to bed , the whole world be watch .
hello , everyone .
do you
now back to `` people in the news . ''
good to be -lsb- bleep -rsb- king .
reporter : with the success of a new television show and last year 's oz-fest tour ready to kick off , thing be look great for ozzy osbourne .
he be sober .
he be rich and surround by a family who love he but once again , ozzy 's high would hit a low .
that july , sharon osbourne , ozzy 's long time manager , wife and best friend , announce to the world that she have be diagnose with colon cancer .
every fiber of ozzy be shake .
he have to be sedate for a while .
reporter : sharon would have to undergo round of chemotherapy all summer .
ozzy take time off from oz-fest to tend to he wife .
ever the rock , sharon face cancer head on .
when you go in there and people so much worse than I , and it be like , how lucky be i have a great support system .
reporter : even with sharon try to make thing as easy as possible on she husband , he be still a mess .
he struggle with sobriety would be test again .
ozzy 's not do too good right now .
drinking ?
drinking and he be very delicate .
he be , like , deal with it the best he can .
reporter : despite sharon 's illness , it be business as usual for the family , though push back , film commence last fall on a second season of `` the osbourne . ''
some day when i be feel bad , i say i can not do this anymore , and then you wake up and see the crew , and then , you know , you snap out of it .
reporter : the larger question loom .
how could comedy come out of chemotherapy treatment ?
sharon be deal with the diagnosis and illness but what be interesting be humor be the same .
reporter : and the humor do remain the same .
the show come back with a vengeance last fall chronicle ozzy and sharon deal with cancer and the kid hope -- cope with new-found celebrity and one of the top rate show , rating for the second season slide .
i be not bank my whole life on bring , you know , number one rate show .
have a nervous break down .
the bubble will burst .
reporter : this year , more up and downs .
sharon announce in april that the cancer be in remission .
but just week after that announcement , son jack enter drug and alcohol rehabilitation in california .
he family say that he party life style catch up with he .
now , with a third season set to start , will ozzy 's role as a family man change the image in the annul of heavy metal mad man ?
i think ozzy 's the guy that hit a head of a bat .
you know ?
crazy , drug taking , hard drinking , hard living rock n roller .
i think what the show do be also show that you might be those thing , but also might be a pretty great dad , too .
i would not be here now if it be not for my wife .
i always love my wife but sometimes i do not like she and sometimes she do not like I but we love each other .
i hate these people that go , we have be marry for 56 year and never have a bad word .
they must have be live in a different planet .
reporter : ozzy osbourne 's life fill with incredible high crash into devastate low .
a manic life , ground in family value .
ozzy 's not go to like I say this , but he be a very tender , gentle man .
this be a guy whose world revolve not so much around music as around he wife .
rock 'n roll !
part of the legacy of ozzy osbourne be a cautionary tale .
it be also , you know , tale that include family love , you know , and a lot of good thing .
we have have it .
reporter : it be a tale that continue to unfold .
no tell how long the osbourne phenomenon may last but the family 's loyal follow will always be scream for more .
stop scream !
reporter : and so will ozzy .
sharon !
despite problem
back in this city , a courthouse in manhattan .
sam waksal , founder and former consider o of imclone be schedule to be sentence today .
he plead guilty earlier this year to insider trading , bank fraud and tax evasion .
waksal could be fine $ 3.5 million , face a maximum of 75 year in prison , expect , though , to receive about six to seven year .
that be the early indication we have be give .
a friend of he , martha stewart , plead not guilty last week .
the charge relate to she sale of imclone stock .
she sell the share as day before bad news about the company send the stock price fall .
considerably .
sam waksal , sentence , 10:00 a.m. , local time here in new york .
up first , on `` cnn live today '' , sentence this hour in the case of sam waksal , the man at the center of the martha stewart scandal .
he could become the highest ranking executive to go to prison in the recent series of corporate scandal .
cnn financial news correspondent chris huntington be outside the federal courthouse where sentencing be underway .
chris ?
it be 11:00 a.m. on the east coast .
from the cnn center in atlanta , i be fred fred .
a first here on `` cnn live today , '' a spiral cycle of violence threaten the latest middle east peace effort .
this morning hama vow revenge for a israeli missile attack .
israeli hospital gun ship fire on a jeep in gaza .
the strike target a hamas leader .
and two other people be kill include a mother and bodyguard .
mike hanna be track the latest development from there .
he join we live with the detail .
mike ?
we be follow a important story that be develop today in gaza .
two israeli helicopter air strike against palestinian target , hama target in gaza .
a number of people have be kill in the first airstrike , two palestinian be kill , a mother and a child apparently .
a hamas leader be injure in that strike .
he be now in a palestinian hospital .
in the second apache helicopter airstrike that occur within the past hour or so , we be now tell by palestinian , three people die , 33 other be wound , six be in critical condition , three dead be civilian , accord to palestinian source .
we be go to continue to monitor that story for we viewer .
we be also check out other development right now , include this story that be just come in from the associated press right now .
i just want to get it from we computer .
sam waksal have be sentence to more that seven year in prison , order to pay $ 4 million in fine and back tax in connection with the insider trading scandal .
as you know , he plead guilty to those charge .
he be now get word of he sentence from the federal judge .
seven year in prison , actually more than seven year in prison , $ 4 million in fine and back tax , a story we have be follow here on cnn throughout the morning .
we will have much more come up in the next hour .
bring you up to date on a break story out of the middle east .
in gaza , a pair of israeli gun ship attack , aerial attack that have threaten to derail the road map to peace , as it be call .
in the first attack , a car carry rantissus , a senior member of the hama group , a militant organization , be target .
he survive , with wound , but two people be kill .
27 other be injure in that attack .
the second attack occur after some rocket firing aim , apparently , toward the israelis , apparently in retaliation .
we be check we fact on that one .
that be just unfold .
the white house say , and the president directly quote as say , he be deeply trouble by that initial attack .
still no reaction to the second attack .
the detail on that still inconclusive .
the president , quote by ari fleischer , he spokesman , be say he be concern the strike will undermine effort by palestinian authority to bring a end to terrorist attack and do not contribute to the security of israel .
clearly some frustration with the sharon government in israel in the wake of these attack in gaza .
you be look at mar .
this show some of the layer effect scientist find so interesting , capture by the mar global surveyer , which have be in orbit since march of 1999 , one of the more successful mission nasa have ever stage to the red planet .
only one out of three mission succeed .
nasa hope they will do well today with the launch of the first of a pair of identical rover head to the red planet .
they will arrive in january .
about the size of a golf cart .
they will do some poke around for sign of water .
past or present .
every 26 month , mar and earth fly in close orbital formation .
it be only then a mission to the red planet be possible .
this time , mar be closer than ever .
this happen to be a particularly good opportunity , where we be close enough and the geometry work out that we have a excellent datum return .
so that mean we can bring more picture , more information about mar back to the people of the earth , in this particular landing opportunity .
reporter : the twin mission to hunt for sign of life be set for a journey of a quarter billion mile , carry identical red planet rover .
they be the size of golf cart .
they will enter the atmosphere on opposite side of the planet in january and then deploy parachute and air bag to cushion they arrival on the rust-colored surface .
in 1999 , the mar polar lander be suppose to arrive alive by use
we be now hit 33 after the hour this morning .
embattled imclone founder sam waksal sentence to more than seven year in prison for insider trading .
the scandal draw national headline when it ensnare domestic diva martha stewart .
waksal admit advise he daughter to dump she stock , stewart be be accuse of unload she stock after also learn some inside information .
waksal be the first chief executive to be sentence in a wave of corporate scandal and that start with the big enron bankruptcy into 2001 .
top executive at the company accuse of cook the book to hide billion of dollar in debt .
former enron vice president sherron watkin who write that now-famous memo question the accounting practice and join we now from houston , we want to talk to she about the fate of she form be company as justice department continue to build its case against key enroan executive and insight on maybe some other headline we be see this morning .
we be get break news to we , from jerusalem .
we understand there have be a explosion there .
this right now , again , follow up in the last few day of violent activity we have see in the wake of what be widely perceive to be as progress in the peace process .
we understand that a bus have be -- explode .
we be hear it happen indown town jerusalem .
do we have mike hanna available ?
try to get mike hanna or jerusalem bureau chief , who be just on the air with we a matter of minute ago .
with the latest update on what be happen there and it appear in the time since we have talk to mike and also talk to professor about the peace process , evidence again that the resistance to any progress do continue .
we be now hear once again , this come to we off associate press wire there be a explosion there and we understand that several people have be kill .
again , this be what we be get from the associated press .
we be try to get ahold of we reporter in jerusalem to give we the latest .
and this be the latest in a series of what have become a almost customary tit for tat exchange of violent activity .
last week , if you may recall , there be a strike on afraid in which a number of israeli soldier kill , that execute by coordinate group of islamic jihad as well as al ak satisfy martyr brigade , and hama all claim responsibility for that and the strike order by sharon against the palestinian leadership go , target a top leader , mr. rantissus who escape the helicopter rocket attack on he motorcade .
however , two other who be there do die .
this now , this happen over the weekend and then this morning , ware hearing it appear as though perhaps there have be another retaler to strike of some kind .
we can not con foirm that be what happen .
all we can tell you , there be a explosion on a bus in jerusalem in ventral -- central jerusalem .
a number of people kill , perhaps several people be kill in the explosion , which happen just moment ago .
once again , we be try to get ahold of we mike hanna , who be just with we on the phone .
i believe mike be over in jerusalem in the bureau work the telephone , try to get as much information as he can and once behe get something we will deliver it to you .
we will take a break and when we come back , we will pick up coverage of this development in jerusalem with mike hanna .
how 's that new analyst do ?
he be really hit the ground running .
even the trader be compliment he .
-lsb- crash -rsb- interesting stock presentation this morning .
-lsb- whoosh -rsb- when you manage the kind of money we do , you tend to be a little more demand .
evergreen .
investment that stand the test of time .
good evening , everyone .
tonight , the middle east peace process be in danger of be sweep away by violence .
president bush call upon the world to stop terrorism after a suicide bomb attack on a bus in jerusalem today .
16 people be kill .
at least 70 be injure .
shortly afterward , israel kill seven people in gaza , two of they member of hama .
mike hanna in jerusalem , but first , go to kelly wallace in kba sda where there be more helicopter attack tonight .
kelly ?
want to get to florida .
a massive manhunt underway where a rapist be target child .
dna testing have conclusively link one man .
the two most recent victim , age 11 and 13 .
they also believe one of those attack in this string be age 79 as well .
we talk with the lieutenant in miami and there be big time concern in the shenandoah neighborhood , southwestern portion of miami .
overseas in iraq , a major operation underway .
bob novak 's here with the `` inside buzz . ''
i understand there may be a rift among the republican leadership in the house ?
yeah , there be a little tension between the house majority leader , tom delay , and he successor as house majority whip and he former deputy , lloyd blunt , kind of come to light when `` the washington post '' have a front-page story show disagreement on the provision , delay have it take out .
they have be disagree on union oppose bill on flex time .
there be just a lot of feeling that delay do not feel blunt be do the job as well as he do it .
maybe they be jossle for who be go to be the next speaker .
i do not think dennis hastert plan to step down soon anyway .
move onto the democrat .
what be the speculation about john edward ?
some of the national democratic operative think john edward be go to run for president and that he ought to get out and concentrate on be reelect senator of north carolina which will not be easy .
some people think white house chief of staff would be a stronger candidate anyway .
i be not sure if that be true .
but there be a lot of feeling this presidental race
slaughter in congo .
with most of the world turn a blind eye .
a month of bloodlete between rival tribe have already kill 500 people .
that be just a fraction of the killing and rape and torture that have grippedd the country since 1998 .
here be a look at what happen and some of the picture in this report be very disturbing .
for a while , the world focus on the war in iraq .
now the spotlight turn to the conflict in the middle east .
a massacre of massive proportion be unraveling in africa , and most of the world be turn a blind eye .
international relief agency estimate that more than 3 million people have die in what be often dub africa 's first world war .
it be , in fact , the deadliest conflict since world war ii and have be go on for five year .
there be no oil here .
but the land be home to other natural gem be fight over .
diamond , gold , timber and a mineral you probably use every day .
it be in cell phone and laptop computer .
congo , almost a quarter the size of the united state .
the war there , a direct spillover from the 1994 civil war in rwanda , where government-led militia slaughter a estimate 800,000 opposition , and opposition sympathizer in about 100 day .
after rwanda , the world issue maya kulpa .
president clinton apologize for not get involve .
here be what he say in 1998 .
the drain of a pond for anthrax evidence in maryland be finish .
up next for investigator , to try to search sediment on the bottom of the pond located just outside fredrick , not far from washington , d.c. it be part of the investigation into the deadly anthrax attack in the fall of 2001 in which five people be kill .
welcome back to `` people in the news . ''
the intifada , the spontaneous 1987 palestinian uprising against the israeli occupation , herald the rise of the muslim fundamentalism .
in what have be a mostly secular palestinian movement .
the most popular of these group hama , a acronym for islamic resistance movement .
in english it mean zeal , its aim -- the destruction of israel .
hama be a islamic movement .
at the very beginning , it be encourage by israel because they think it be a counter weight to palestinian nationalism which be , of course , a secular movement .
hama be found in 1988 by a blind paraplegic cleric who be influence by the islamic muslim brotherhood , with backing from israel , he set up sharity in the improverished strip in the 1970 .
slowly it become more and more politicize , and more and more extreme in its demand for a islamic state .
the extremism take the form of suicide bombing and terrorist attack .
but hama have already become a important part of palestinian society through its charity work and its influence increase over time by provide community service when the palestinian authority do not .
hamas play on the palestinian authority 's failure to produce .
its basic message , the palestinian authority be corrupt , it fail to deliver , hama be not corrupt .
hama care about the person on the street and it do deliver .
unfortunately , those same charitable organization , those same charity committee that funnel the fund to needier palestinian , also serve to support terrorist attack .
israel and the united state say arafat have not be tough enough on terrorism , and have attempt to force he out of the current peace process .
the prime minister know as abu mazen must now contend with the rejection of side by side palestinian and israeli state .
a cornerstone of the new peace plan .
he be try to get hama to co - exist with israel .
conservative israeli be skeptical .
he be not work against hama , he be work in tandem .
he be negotiate with they .
he be not tell they to disband and regulate they weapon , so i have no faith in the ability of abu mazen to put terror aside .
reporter : settler call the just conclude israeli-american - palestinian summit a surrender , and be not impressed .
translator : the armed intifada must end and we must use and resort to peaceful means in we quest to end the occupation and the suffering of the palestinian , and the israelis , and to establish the palestinian state .
hama and other palestinian militant group reject abba ' call to end they attack with a deadly raid on a israeli army outpost in gaza .
we be all say that the resistance will continue despite the summit in aqaba .
israel retaliate on hama , namely al-rantissi , it miss he and kill civilian .
translator : hama will not drop we weapon , even if all leader be assassinate .
reporter : since the second intifada begin in 2000 , over 700 israeli have be kill , during the same time there have be more than 2,000 palestinian death accord to the red crescent .
include hama leader target for assassination .
if you want a end to terrorism , if you want a end to violence , you have to give people hope and you have to give they a stake in the political process .
i think that hama be ready to join the political process , however , if the only price for the political price be you must fight hama , if that be what they be require abu mazen to do , they be almost mandate that he will fail .
the main test of mahmoud abba , will be to establish a overall command of all armed group , if not , it do not have a chance .
you know , leader have to do thing
report show a rebound in new york 's manufacturing sector be help to fuel that optimism today .
right now the dow jone industrial average with a triple-digit gain , up 137 .
the blue chip advance be be lead by manufacturer 3m and caterpillar , as well as merck and johnson & johnson .
and the nasdaq composite be add more than 1.5 % .
meantime , share of kmart be surge nearly $ 3 .
it lose $ 862 million in the first quarter , but that be much better than the retailer do a year ago when it be under bankruptcy protection .
that be the very latest from wall street .
the same part of the world , high wind , high sea , three fisherman rescue near vancouver by a royal caribbean cruise ship .
the man hold on the sink vessel until the passenger ship be able to reach they .
a cruise line spokesman say if it be not for the fisherman 's protective suit , they probably would not have stay warm enough to survive .
the same part of the world in which we have that other incident the other day , about 52 degree that water temp .
that be chilly .
that be a job , huh ?
here be jack .
question of the day .
worst job you ever snad high-profile people who be take it on the arthur and head for other place .
the lady at the pentagon say she be leave , say it have be a honor serve she post but she be leave for personal reason .
frank keating leave a commission set up to look into allegation of sex abuse in the catholic church , he decide to quit after he make comment compare uncooperative church bishop to la cosa nosta , other folk , ari fleischer .
we think it might be interesting to share tale of the worst job you ever have .
why do you leave it ?
you can e-mail we -- this do count , sorry .
crew all go , this one right here ?
work with we .
i spend one summer at the university of nevada waxing dormer to floor and move furniture in building
and now join we by phone from liverpool with more on the harry potter heist be caroline forham , press officer with the mercy side police .
it be come to steal children book , be it ?
i think these be profitable children book .
so very popular .
i think that people think they probably be lucrative for they .
as you mention , if anyone be see to be sell these on the black market they will be prosecute .
be that why you think they be steal , sale before the deadline or after ?
i think probably they know they can make more money before the deadline on these book .
but i know no reputable book shop will take these steal goods and sell they .
i think we be look at in market store and sale over the next coming day .
we have police officer look for they and will prosecute anyone see sell they or buy they .
consider how much publicity be circulate about this book , there be injunction about publish anything or talk about the plot .
what kind of security be there in place for any truck carry book ?
the book be steal from a warehouse , they have they own security measure .
they do have they ccpb operational , we be look at that to see if
seven minute before the top of the hour .
at the beginning we tell but this incredible story about the rescue of three fisherman in the water off the coast of vancouver , stick in the water , gail force wind , small boat , they be rescue by a cruise ship that happen to be in the neighborhood .
those three man do not realize how lucky they be until they be pluck out of the water .
we have with we captain kent ringboard , on board the royal caribbean `` radiance of the sea . ''
i understand you be on board when this rescue happen .
be you in charge ?
yes , that be correct i be in charge .
tell we about what happen here .
what be it you be look at when you look out over the water ?
well , it be quite windy , gusty wind up to 40 , 50 mile a hour .
and it come from southeast .
and we get the alarm this distress situation just before 5:00 in the morning .
and we be on relatively slow speed for the time be , but we of course , speed up to the position , which be give , and we -- after a hour , we spot the fishing boat in the water .
these man be in some water that be quite frigid .
if they stay out there for long they could have suffer severe tragedy , perhaps .
i want to ask you , have you ever do anything like this ?
have you ever see anything like this do ?
no , i have never see this type of operation where you have a fishing vessel disappear , more or less .
and that the survivor , they have to go into the water , pick they up from the water .
be there any point at which you do not think you would be able to pull it off ?
sorry , please say again ?
be there any point at which you think you would not be able to pull it off ?
no , absolutely not .
we -- we be 100 % sure we could make it , absolutely .
because we come very close to the vessel .
we have we rescue boat out soon .
so i feel confident about it .
i see the fisherman also have the survive suit on .
so that give I more time to help .
that be a good thing for they .
what about you crew that be actually involve in the rescue here ?
be they train for this sort of thing ?
yes , they be very much well-trained .
we train for this type of operation at least every 14 day .
i be hopeful those three fisherman buy you a glass of wine once you get they on board .
we give they some .
these incredible picture .
i be not sure if you have be able to see some of these picture play on the television set around the world but we look at these picture and think there be no way a cruise ship , as big as it be , will be able to maneuver into position in these kind of heavy sea to save three cork out there on the water .
amazing .
it be interesting .
but we have a good maneuvering capability on
canada be on the path to become the third country to allow gay marriage .
the federal government will not appeal the court ruling that clear the way for same-sex union .
prime minister jean chretien say the government will now draft legislation legalize gay marriage .
and the u.s. government can repeat , can withhold the name of people detain as part of the 9/11 investigation .
that be the decision from a federal appeal court reverse a lower court ruling .
the justice department argue that release the name could hamper ongoing investigation .
as we have be report , only within the past hour or so , there be be a shooting incident in central israel , not far from the west bank .
a 7-year-old israeli girl have die .
two other , she father apparently and another sister , have be wound in this incident .
we be go to continue to get more detail on this late-breaking development and bring you those detail when we have they .
off the coast there be a dramatic rescue by a cruise ship ship .
canada tv have the story and some dramatic picture .
reporter : with wind blip at more than 100 kilometer a hour , three mende pratly cling to they sink niching boat .
the crew send out a distress call after it start take on water .
suddenly we realize water come into the engine room and it be rise and they start to pump , of course , and they pump and pump and the water come more and more and more .
reporter : the ship be sink by the second , and as the wave pound against they , wait for help be they only option .
they life raft have already be snitch away by the high sea .
when we get the information , it be only 23 , 25 mile off .
so we be quite close .
reporter : still be take the royal caribbean cruise ship `` raidience of the sea '' almost a hour to reach the scene and despite the rough ocean , the captain immediately send a boat in to save they .
they see they .
they see they .
they be jump in the sea when they see the rescuer be on the way .
they be swim toward the boat .
i pull out the youngest guy first and then i want to pull out the captain , but the captain say take
see that graphic ?
more than a million baby await adoption in china today .
a california family be now bigger by one .
tonight they be welcome little abby kramer in the world be anything but simple .
she new mom and dad have to contend with international red tape , travel thousand of mile to meet the new addition and cope with the sar crisis go on in china .
they story be remarkable .
thelma gutierrez tell the story of the kramer meet kramer .
reporter : the kramer be take a trip .
the trip of a lifetime .
i have passport and everything ready to pack .
reporter : mark and denise be go to china to pick up a baby girl .
she new parent will call she abby .
to I look like my child be my child .
so i can not wait to have she .
reporter : after wait nearly a year , thing get a little complicated for the kramer .
sar wreak havoc in china and foreign adoption be put on hold .
the kramer be among the lucky one .
they via be approve .
do you have mask ?
yes .
actually , we do bring some mask .
reporter : still they have concern .
they be head to quinn joe .
we understand that be where the sar epidemic start from and we be go right to the heart .
reporter : nothing will stop they .
what would you tell she about somehow she come to you and why she be give up ?
the people that give birth to you be not necessarily you mom and dad .
they be the one that love you and care for you .
we be .
reporter : finally , it be time to go .
with the 16-hour flight to look forward to -- it be be a total rollercoaster .
reporter : -- the kramer be finally on they way .
with we video camera , they record they journey .
we just board the plane .
the flight attendant be wear mask .
reporter : the kramer decide not to .
neither do the other 23 adoptive family on the long overseas trip .
we just get off , so we 16-hour flight be over .
reporter : the family begin with a tour .
a alligator .
my goodness .
reporter : the kramer must wait and travel to another town for abby .
on the next flight , passenger wear mask and they temperature be take for sign of sar .
sod be the big day .
we be a hour and a half from get we abigail .
reporter : finally the kramer meet abby .
hi , there .
i kind of lean over and give she a kiss on the forehead and she look up and -- reporter : they know little about they little girl , find by the side of the road day after she be bear .
she spend most of she life in a orphannage .
now abby have a new life in california with the kramer and they two kid .
i think i love she more every day , every time i look at she .
reporter : thelma gutierrez , cnn , lo angele .
well , it be we turn to meet the kramer back in the u.s. after they journey to china to bring home the newest and cutest perhaps , member of they family , in lo angele , the proud parent of 11 mnth abigail kramer .
thank you for be with we .
thank you for have we .
she be unbelievably adorable .
thanks .
tell we a little about this journey , that moment when you first see she .
you travel .
this be go on two year , you battle bureaucracy , travel thousand of mile , face disease .
what be that like ?
incredible .
you know , just to hold she in we arm , have she with we .
i mean , you count the moment .
and it be just anticipation all the way there .
so it be relief .
it be , you know , a dream come true .
she be -- she be really a delight .
i mean , though it be a little pandemonium at the moment , she be wonderful .
we love she .
and , mark , it be -- the first time you be hold she , it look like she be cry a lot .
she seem startle to see someone that look so different .
yes , this be probably she first experience ever see a fair - skin , beard goatee , monster look guy and she just freak out the first time she see I .
it take about a day and a half for she to warm up .
i have to hide in the hotel room .
she would find I in the room and start cry every time she see I .
you have to hide in the hotel room ?
yeah , she would find I across the room and break into tear .
it be kind of that way with anyone that be blond , that be fair-skinned .
yeah .
when you first hear about sar , i mean , do you suddenly think , this may not happen ?
this could stop the whole thing sure .
we get call that morning say `` do you hear that they be halt all travel ? ''
and we put in a call to the agency .
we be go .
and we put a lot of trust in we agency .
and they be great .
you know , unless we be absolutely stop , we be go .
right .
after two year of work towards it , we be almost more afraid not to go than to go at the very end .
you know , mark , i hope this be not too personal a question .
if it be , just simply tell I to shut up .
but when -- in the story i see abby be abandon on the side of the road , which be just -- it be unthinkable .
you can not even imagine a parent do that .
what do you think you be go to tell she when she grow up about how she come to live with you ?
well , i get emotional every time i -- someone ask that .
but we be go to give she the best love and affection we can and give she a strong self esteem and we be go to teach she
in michigan , a second straight night and into this morning , hundred of people have be rioting in benton harbor .
a man on a motorcycle be kill while be chase about i police , the violence break out .
the governor have declare a state of emergency .
mark albert from we affiliate have more from benton harbor .
the head of the catholic church in phoenix , arizona , bishop thoma o'brien have resign .
just one day after be charge with a felony .
he be accuse of leave the scene of a fatal accident .
earlier this month o'brien narrowly escape prosecution over he handling of sexual abuse allegation against priest .
well , sex abuse by priest remain a issue in the catholic church in the united state and it be certain to be a issue as bishop gather tomorrow in st. loui for they semiannual meeting .
under a charter approve last year by the national conference of catholic bishop , diocese official will report allegation of sexual abuse of a minor to public authority .
past , present or future sexual abuse of a minor will lead to removal from the ministry .
no priest or deacon who sexually abuse a minor may be transfer to another desy .
with I now to talk more about the o'brien case and the division still divide the church be barbara blain , the founder of the survivor network in st. loui and also join we from detroit joe mayor , the founder of a priest support group .
barbara , to you first .
as the bishop get ready for this important meeting tomorrow , be you satisfy that they have take all the appropriate step to deal with the abuse issue ?
a net worth of $ 300 million .
anyone who know I know my obsession with tween star .
they be kid eight to 14 , and for million , they hero be barely occupy puberty .
the reason for my obsession be simple , deep seething jealousy .
it be not enough for these tween star to be on the tv or movie .
they want to own every form of media and want to own it now .
unlike the corey feldman of the '80 , today 's tween be not content with succeed in just one of medium .
mary indicate and ashley olsen start it all .
now they have a billion dollar empire build on video , clothing perfume and more .
and then there be the tween hilary duff , fan know she as lizzie mag wire .
movie , book , album .
three corporate giant head the way .
typical , nickelodeon or disney start they off .
then when they be ready to breed they go to the wb .
why such a focus on these tween star ?
it have little to do with they artistic vision .
one star tell vanity fair they favorite author be whoever write the bible .
these kid be at that magical age when new multibillion declare spend power be put in service of intense peer pressure lead to brand loyalty that can last a lifetime .
the flip side between star , though , be once the fan grow up they star power may dim .
do not believe in just ask one of the corey .
these tween be everywhere .
they be right on the cover of vanity fair .
tween be all over it .
that be the issue right there .
so we have with we vanity fair fashion director elizabeth olsen .
i be shock when i see they cover the tween .
why be they so important ?
they be important because we report on what be happen .
we report on the culture of what be now , what maze money , what the buzz be , what be next .
and they be make a lot of money .
a much more than a lot of money .
unlike star of the past , they really be not content to be singer or dancer , they be like omnimedia , mini martha stewart .
they be more than that , actually , because they have a television show to back themselves up , then the movie , then the clothing line .
they have much more and reach a much broader audience as well .
i see one interview , and they say , yeah , when i leave the cosby show at age four , i cut a album at age five .
what happen happen to be kid ?
that be the great thing about the photo shoot .
thee still young , ambitious , excited , they play dressup and have pillow fight .
who be the ultimate tween ?
i would have i to say you have to talk about hilary duff , and you have to talk about the olsen twin .
because the olsen twin start it all .
they create it , maybe .
they more than start it .
and they start prenatal .
but they turn it into a empire , what shirley temple could have do .
have she only known .
i think they company be call dual star , like a gross of a billion dollar last year .
they work hard .
they be not just sit there hire people to do they business .
they do they own business , and they be well-rounded and polite people .
be they nice ?
they be so nice and cool .
how about that ?
they be actually very , very cool .
i be not sure of that .
and hilary duff be a star , and i guarantee you , they will grace they own cover .
do they all have stay power ?
one can not predict that all have it , but some have it .
it depend on who be manage it , what career choice they make , what they parent help they to do .
it would be interesting to see the audience that sort of adore they now , whether
welcome back .
we be follow another important story in washington , d.c. , involve the federal government 's investigation of al qaeda operation in the united state .
we justice correspondent kellus arena have detail , she be join we live , kellus ?
reporter : wolf , the government will announce a plea agreement that be reach with a ohio truck driver who allegedly have tie to al qaeda , and the driver 's name be iman ferris , and accord to government source al qaeda leader , khale sheikh mohammed tell investigator that ferris 's order to surveil the brooklyn bridge be the ultimate goal of try to cut the suspension bridge 's cable and he be involve in a plot to drive a truck load with explosive onto a airport tarmac to blow up a plane .
obviously , neither plan come off .
ferris disappear from sight , and cnn have confirm he be take into custody .
the document regard this case , wolf , be just unsealed he plead guilty to two count back on may 1st , because of the extreme sensitivity of the case , detail about the plea arrangement be keep under seal .
we be tell he plead guilty to conspiracy to provide material support to terrorist and actually provide material support
meanwhile , islamic jihad be claim responsibility for a bombing today at a small israeli grocery store in israel , but near the west bank board .
the store 's owner and the palestinian bomber be kill .
the store be a total loss .
the israelis , 63 year old be in the store , there be some indication the palestinian suicide bomber have expect more israelis to be inside , but there be not any other israelis there he blow himself up apparently as a result , the investigation be continue .
islamic jihad have so far claim responsibility for that .
secretary of state colin powell say some progress be be make despite all of this , towards a truce involve palestinian militant .
powell be wrap up a trip to southeast asia , he be due here in jerusalem tomorrow morning for talk with the israeli prime minister and the foreign minister .
later , he be suppose to helicopter to jericho on the west bank to meet with the palestinian prime minister mahmoud abba .
i be rhonda schaffler , live from the new york stock exchange .
where stock be stick in reverse .
stock have rally for three month on a hope of a turnaround in the economy .
investor ignore upbeat sign about the economy today .
a key gauge of future economic activity post its biggest rise in 17 month .
despite that the dow jone industrial average slide at the moment by 76 point .
general electronic use a dollar after three brokerage company cut they profit expectation on the company .
nasdaq off 0.75 % .
cnn 's `` live from '' continue after this .
convict rapist and max factor heir andrew luster be back in california .
luster return to lo angele yesterday from mexico follow he capture tuesday by american bounlty hunter .
luster skip bail during he trial in january for rape and drug three woman .
he be sentence in a sten shah to 124 year in prison .
dog chapman be in the same truck you see .
at one point , the mexican police bust both andrew luster and dwayne dog chapman , because they do not like bounty hunter in mexico .
chapman remain behind bar as we speak in mexico .
andrew luster , though arrive yesterday at lo angeles international airport on a commercial flight from mexico .
as soon as he arrive -- thoom be walk by the fbi to a van belong to the ventura county sheriff 's folk .
he be take to a prison in kearn county , california , about 100 mile from lo angele , a place mostly know for its grape .
make of that what you may .
heidi ?
from the air , it look like a big box of spifld matching and toothpick .
a runaway fragt train derail in commerce , california , and spill its load of lumber .
we national correspondent frank buckley be on the scene for we .
he be there and join we live with detail .
how bad be it ?
it will be a busy weekend for secretary powell on the sideline of the forum , member of the middle east quartet meeting on sunday .
it be compose of the u.s. , russia , the european union , and the unite nation .
a u.n. envoy say the group 's first priority be to negotiate a transfer of military power over gaza and bethlehem to the palestinian authority .
she la mac vicar have the latest .
reporter : there be some suggestion after the viz it yesterday of colin powell meeting with ariel sharon , palestinian prime minister abba say more progress may be make on implementation of the u.s. administration 's road map to peace .
`` the lo angele time '' report that israeli and palestinian official may be very close to reach a deal for security control , not just of a small part of gaza , but return all of the gaza strip to palestinian control , that be a very significant step , indeed , plus the west bank city of bethlehem .
the `` l.a. time '' report that negotiation continue and will resume tomorrow .
senior israeli official tell cnn that the size of the area to be return to the gaza strip be not so much the question confirm that , in fact , return all of the gaza strip to palestinian security control be one of the option the israeli have indeed put on the table , the issue be the palestinian readiness and willingness to be able to implement full security control throughout all of the gaza strip .
now , from the israeli perspective , that also mean they would expect palestinian authority to fairly quickly begin to disarm and dismantle organization like hama in particular .
the
well , also in england , he be rich , handsome , get million of adoring fan , and today he celebrate a birthday , big 21 .
prince william , second in line to the british throne , cnn 's walter rodger have the story .
reporter : in day of yore , a english prince , a king in wait would be charge off to battle on a horse , just before he 21st birthday , prince william be chase a polo ball , such of what have become of the british monarchy over time .
buckingham palace release he picture of william , brother harry and they father , prince charle in what some see as a skilled marketing campaign to sell the monarchy to the next generation of britain .
after 15 year of scandal and embarrassment , many see prince william as the house of windsor 's only hope .
it be the young people he need to appeal to .
by the time he get to the throne , it be go to be in 40 year , the young people of today that need to be he fan .
reporter : william do not lack for fan .
those who weep when he mother , princess di anna , die , apparently transfer they affection to she eldest son .
he be part teen idol , part king in the making , but unlike he father , prince charle , who be likely to precede he to the throne , this prince sustain -- disdain be call you royal highness , sign he name , william wale .
i would think that if you ask anyone if william be normal , every single person would say , absolutely normal .
but slightly more serious than most young man he age .
reporter : prince william be most at ease with those closest to he .
those he can trust not to run to britain 's gossipy feed ya .
despite prince charle ' ugly divorce with princess di anna , the affection between father and son be now palpable and enviable .
you be all very good .
reporter : the younger king in the make call britain 's next king pa .
william , once he mother 's confidante and protector now see the apple of he father 's eye .
be chase he with a stick , and the horse be duck .
reporter : there be a huge birthday bash for william at windsor castle , more than 300 guest invite , all ffk , friend of the future king .
that birthday party have now be under way about
the nasa and the european space agency both launch mission to mar this month send rover and ashter to probe the red planet .
one of the big question about mar be when or whether human will ever be able to visit .
it be a idea plague with unsolved problem .
the latest issue of `` popular science magazine '' take a look at the challenge nasa be face .
join we be the contribute editor .
good to see you , jeff .
thank you .
it be only about 30 year ago when we go to the moon .
so what be the difficulty in be able to go to mar ?
it be unimaginably difficult and different .
mar be at most time 100 million mile away from we .
it be a nine-month trip .
then if we stay there for about a year or two , the whole trip could last about three year .
we be talk about condition where there be radiation in space cosmic radiation that could cause cancer .
the communication condition once you be on mar , just to talk to people on earth , there be a 20 minute delay in the conversation .
so the -- you know , the issue be so much larger than go to the moon .
and for now , it be 250 day , which seem to be the maximum for astronaut in space anyway .
but as you say , it be a much further travel .
but let 's talk about some of the hurdle that hamper human to be able to survive there .
the dust , for one thing .
cataract another .
let 's talk about the right kind of spacecraft that would be able to allow human to actually get that far and to survive .
right .
well , first of all , the spacecraft would not be launch from earth .
you would have to launch be from in space already , which mean we would have to build it in space .
so that mean we need a good shuttle that be go to take we back and forth to build the spacecraft .
then we have to come up with the fuel that will take it out of the earth 's orbit all the way to mar .
that be probably go to be nuclear propulsion at this point again something we have not really develop yet , because we could not carry that much fuel , obviously .
liquid oxygen would be way too heavy to carry all the way to mar .
the bigger issue be once we get there , we can not carry oxygen or water or food to stay there three year , so we be go to have to do all of that on the surface of the planet .
and think of it .
mar be carbon dioxide .
so we can not breathe there .
so we be go to have to come up with some conversion technique to create water , to create oxygen and then some way of grow food on the planet itself .
all of this be in the work now , but i think it be go to take quite a few year to develop it .
you talk about the cosmic radiation .
then of course there be the zero g bone loss , almost like the erode of bone to human that would be at risk as well .
absolutely .
there could be as much as 50 % bone loss in astronaut in mar .
why ?
during the time in mar .
because when the body have -- when there be no dpravity as there be on mar , the body do not pick up the calcium in the bone , so it do not keep get the bone stronger and stronger .
so they will just lose it .
they will be almost like old people even at the age of 40 .
jeff rothfeder .
thank you for join we .
look like it will be some time before we make we way to mar .
that be it for we .
but before we go , a look at what be come up next week .
a controversial incinerator just about ready to destroy weapon at a anniston , alabama , military facility .
what might be the risk to people downwind .
that story and much more come up next week .
come up next on `` cnn live sunday '' a look at america 's storage of gas .
that be follow by `` people in the news '' profile harrison ford and harry potter .
at 8:00 eastern , cnn present road to baghdad .
how about the former mayor ?
he get marry .
what else have rudy giuliani be up to ?
he speak with paul paula zahn .
it be she first night back .
here be a bit of what she have to say .
he have to say to she .
my focus be on re-elect president bush and dick cheney next year , the convention be go to be here in the city of new york .
that be not the question i ask you .
what i be go to do ?
that be so far in the future .
would you consider a run for governor .
sure , i would consider run for public office again in a couple of year because , first of all , i enjoy public service and i enjoy campaigning .
i be in 30 state i think last year .
on behal of republican candidate and i tend to do a lot of campaigning in the next year for the president .
at some point , i be go to want to do it myself .
speaking of the presidency , you say it would be arrogant to talk about that office when it be not under serious consideration .
be that something that you have ever give a glance thought to ?
i do not think you do unless it be realistic .
at this point , my candidate
okay .
question of the day .
here 's jack back with that .
thank you , bill .
there be a new poll out this morning , abc news washington post poll that suggest that most american would support u.s. military action against iran in order to keep the country from acquire nuclear weapon .
accord to the survey , 56 % say they would back military force block iran from develop nuclear weapon .
38 % say they would oppose it .
that be the question this morning .
would you support the use of military force to block iran from develop nuclear weapon ?
we have get hundred of response begin this one from edward in oklahoma .
i support the use of military force 100 % .
the problem be with all of the american force bizy in iraq , afghanistan , korea , the balkan , the philippine and korea , can we be sure that france and russia be up to the job ?
not bad .
sally in daytona beach .
i think if we be go to get this terror thing overwith , i think we need to clear the country that house they .
it would be deadly to let iran let they hand on nuclear weapon employ i would support any action .
karen bright , i do not support iran .
why do we , america , get to choose who have nuke and who do not ?
be not that the responsibility of the unite nation ?
kay jone in waterford , connecticut , sure , let 's invade iran .
wior already over there , besides the biggest cost we to next to the loss of life be transport we troops overseas .
iraq , iran .
it be only one letter off , we could call it a typo .
a little cruel .
bill in montana .
nuclear weapon in iran , hope -- and buzz write no one want to see a war , but no one upon to see another september 11th even more .
especially a nuclear september 11th .
i would support military action in iran if it help to stabilize that area of the world .
you see it go this way ?
you see it go this way ?
i do not know .
i do not know .
i think it be fascinating if you put up a map and a dot for all of the place that you get a
let 's talk about fidelity actually shift some name brand fund into no load .
reporter : it mean it be go to be less expensive to get into some of the mutual fund , some of the biggest , by fidelity .
fidelity be go to get rid of the 3 % upfront sale charge on five of its largest fund .
that do include the magellan fund which be its biggest .
contra fund and low-priced stock fund charge be go to be cancel as well .
magellan and new millennium be close to new investor .
current investor be not go to be charge peoria police department they be try to take advantage of investor 's renew interest to buy stock .
many investor show away from fund that include a low or fee .
that load or fee be already waive .
now , as far as what be go on here on wall street .
some renew interest in buy this afternoon .
stock modestly higher .
of course everyone be more or less wait for the feed decision on interest rate .
we be go to get that tomorrow .
wall street expect the central bank to cut rate .
technology stock hold near the break even line .
there be a warning from chip maker advance micro device .
the company say it be go to miss sale expectation so that be rein in some tech buying .
nasdaq sup just slightly .
that be the very latest news from wall street .
cnn `` live from '' continue right after this break .
we be tell the russian president vladimir putin be greet by prince charle as he arrive in london today .
the music beginning as they enter .
part of the formality of a royal reception such as this .
he private plane arrive at heathrow airport .
putin and he wife leave for the official reception that you be see now here in central london .
we will bring walter rodger back in who be live outside buckingham palace .
let 's listen in for a few moment , roger , and then we will talk about this reception and what it mean .
listen to `` god save the queen . ''
she majesty with russian president , he wife and also prince charle sit down with they guest .
also with they prime minister tony blair .
walter rodger outside of buckingham palace as the royal reception here begin .
first time for russian head of state to visit britain .
more than 130 year , actually the last time be alexander ii in 1874 .
same type of fan fare and pomp to take place .
walter rodger , let 's talk about if we could , the guest list .
just look at this group at this royal reception and , i be even notice some gentleman , probably a political and religious mix of sort .
how do the queen design the guest list for this incredible and historic event ?
a occasion that mark the formal establishment between we two country .
since then this relationship have grow in importance to we both through good time and bad .
both of my generation and britain have special pause to remember the unacceptable sacrifice the russian people make to defeat fascism in the second world war .
nothing , not even the fact that we country become estrange in the war 's aftermath , have ever dim we memory of the scale of you loss .
that experience should continue to inspire we , as we seek to build a more peaceful and secure world .
when i visit you country in 1994 , i recall say to president yeltsin that he and i spend most of we life believe such a visit would never happen .
and that i hope he be as delighted as i be to be prove wrong .
i be just as delighted now , nine year later , to be able to welcome you here and to learn about the great change which have occur in you country since i be there .
russia have establish itself as we partner and we friend .
we work together bilatarily and on the international stage .
and we be develop new link all the time in field of commerce , culture , counterterrorism , energy , education environment .
i know you will be see evidence of some of this during you visit .
mr. president , it be , i believe , a sign of genuine friendship that we be able to have disagreement , but remain firm partner .
it be no secret that the significant difference between we two country earlier this year on how best to handle iraq .
but we be now able to look forward together firmly in agreement on the route we have decide in the unite nation .
although , the tragic loss of british life today remind we all of the difficulty to be face .
but as we look ahead , we know that we long-term partnership be of profound importance to both of we .
this be clearly evident , if we look beyond the challenge of international politics .
in the last few month alone , we have hear the announcement of major investment in russia by british company .
we have also hear a different sign of sir paul mccartney play to enthusiastic crowd in red square .
and we , in turn , have be enthral by the celebration of you own city in petersburg .
at the same time , work continue to bring the young people of we country closer together through language , teaching , school exchange and university program .
we have a vibrant and exciting relationship from which we both derive mass benefit .
mr. president , you country be rich --
go to use it in those patient * * he dandruff shampoo be not tough enough for black , so i buy he maximum strength selsun blue .
it be doctor recommend and work fast .
selsun blue .
that have rivet the nation .
first , a big hearing tomorrow in the scott peterson case .
punish prosecutor .
it could all be up for grab .
then the texa woman accuse of hit a man with she car , drive home about he stick to she windshield and leave he there to die .
and andrew luster , grandson of cosmetic legend max factor .
what drive he to become a serial rapist and to jump bail in the middle of the trial .
only to be capture in mexico by a bounter hunter after five month on the roun .
that be all next on `` larry king live . ''
we begin first with the extraordinary case of andrew luster .
and the guest be here in lo angele , roger john diamond .
he be andrew luster 's attorney .
in chicago , the well known bill curtis .
the special report will air tonight at 10:00 eastern , a twisted mind , the andrew luster story on a & e produce by cb news production for a & e and bill curtis be the producer and director .
in new york be nancy grace .
a former prosecutor .
in atlanta chris picksly , defense attorney .
and in new york , dr. michael wellner who publish the research study on drug facilitate rapist .
he be a professor of psychiatry at nyu , chairman of the forensic panel and fellow of the depravity scale that consider sensational crime for sentencing .
he be arrest in june after he he -- jump trial on bail .
come with someone involve in case of a 22-year-old disabled woman in florida .
they talk about she current predicament .
a mind of toddler .
rape while in state care , pregnant .
and force in the spotlight when jeb bush try to get a guardian appoint for she fetus .
predicament go hard enough to describe that .
to continue a pregnancy that she lawyer say she be not aware of but the decision be not base on the advice of the governor .
here 's cnn 's susan candyiotus .
reporter : we know she only by she initial , this mother to be , jd .
only 22 year old with no known family .
police say she have the mental capacity a 1-year-old .
accord to court filing , jd have cerebral palsy and she be autistic .
she do not become pregnant by choice , she be rape , police say in a group home oversee by the state of florida .
jd be now more than six month pregnant .
since she be incapable of make she own decision , a florida judge base he decision on below to give birth on the recommendation .
two doctor agree jd be , `` in good health , '' two sono gram reveal , no obvious or significant fetal abnormality .
although , jd be autistic , a guardian say jd appear to be responsive north just set in a semiconscious state all the time .
still undecided , a appeal by governor jeb bush , who want the guardian apoint for the fetus .
he say the unborn child must be protect .
however , a spokesman for the governor say he call the court ruling for jd , not to abort the baby , compassionate and humane .
last month in miami , a judge order a abortion for another severely disabled rape woman who have be live this a state-regulated home .
in that case , the young woman 's mother approve the abortion .
and in this case , there be a lot of unanswered question still .
for example , what will happen to the baby , and what will happen to jd ?
of course , accord to the guardian , she be very worried about that , too , and she have warn the court that she hope the mother will be place in a better home when all of this be over , one where she be far better protected than she be by the state in a home where police say she be rape .
aaron ?
well , two question .
do they know who the rapist be ?
that be sort a yes or no , i suppose .
and the other be , have the state do anything ?
be it do anything to tighten up security in these place with respect defenseless people be be attack ?
reporter : well , first of all , regard the rape , they hope to find out who the father be once she give birth because they will analyze dna from the baby in order to try to determine paternity in this case .
and the governor have order a panel of expert now to study this issue of security , far better security than be clearly need for people such as this woman , jd , live in group home .
well , we will wait for the report .
thank you , susan .
susan candiottus in florida .
come up on `` newsnight , '' a cease-fire in the middle east , be there one or be not lot of talk .
action say different .
we will talk to a palestinian legal representative , they legal adviser when we continue from new york .
so what be the clinton , ford and arnold schwarzenegger and the cast of `` friend '' have in common ?
they all love california .
that be certainly true and know aaron tonkin and accord to to `` vanity fair , '' he be at the heart of half a dozen investigation with fraud and angry investor lawsuit a-plenty .
join we be brian burrow to explain it for we .
who this guy ?
garn tonkin ?
brian , can you hear I ?
i think hear someone say something .
can you hear I ?
you be on the air .
one of the great moment of live television , be not it ?
bliian , can you hear I ?
all right .
we will take a -- i can hear you now , anderson .
well , maybe not k. you hear many ?
just barely .
we will take a short break .
we will be right back .
become a member of ... ... at westin.com .
jooirx join we , brian burrow .
who be aaron tonkin .
he be one of the biggest if not the biggest name in the world of hollywood fund-raiser .
a person who would put together celebrity with charity to raise a lot of money .
he be perhaps best know as kind of the focal point between bill and hillary clinton in the hollywood community .
what be interesting , i mean , read the article , basically a lot of the celebrity pay by he to attend charity function .
yeah .
that be one of the thing that be most surprising to I be in learn that in one of the -- one major fund-raiser , for instance , honor former president clinton , former president ford pay by mr. tonkin and sylvester stl loan be pay .
i think it be for charity .
yeah .
i guess apparently not and a lot of the celebrity make money from this .
be they report it to the ir .
i guess at least one ir investigation about this .
right now , aaron tonkin factor in no fewer than seven different federal and state investigation .
one of they be a irs investigation into several million dollar worth of cash and gift that be he give to many many hollywood celebrity .
now , he attorney give we a statement i will put it on the screen .
it say -- be that possible ?
in fact , allege ledged one of the principle reason he take so much fun from
they be call it a one of a kind exhibit t rarest and most precious diamond in the world on display start tomorrow morning at a smithsonian in washington .
they be huge rock .
kathleen coke get a private advanced tour of the vault and the diamond .
reporter : they be the seven wonder of the gem world gather together in one place for the first time in history .
for these three month this will be a once in a lifetime opportunity to see these together .
reporter : in the heart of the museum of national history pass cabinet of artifact .
they be store temporarily in a vault few people enter .
we do interview lock inside next to the seven perfect diamond .
flawless .
reporter : just simply touch it .
203 karat , 40 gram .
it be get a good heft to it .
reporter : a hefty diamond that thief take a stab at in london in 2000 use a bulldozier , sledgehammer and nail gun .
police tip off the raiding .
they would have commit the largest robbery ever to take place ever in the world .
reporter : the jewel include the finest color diamond president world .
color create when i be purity replace the carbon .
this beautiful yellow get its color from nitrogen i be purity .
the blue color come from boron .
reporter : the 59.6 karat pink diamond just unveil in monaco be on display for the first time .
its owner confident it be secure .
this exhibit be every jewel thief 's dream .
they be mt. everest to concur .
be not that a frightening prospect ?
it be a very frighten prospect .
it be a nightmare .
that will never take place .
reporter : assure because the collection will take place in the same room of the hope diamond .
this room a actual vault with state-of-the-art security .
iron door hide in panel close every night , seal it off from the the rest of the museum .
reporter : star hyper ventilate and dig tear get a tour of it .
kat len koch , cnn , washington .
as for I ,
we begin with strom thurmond the man who set a endureance record for politics die last night in he hometown of edgefield , south carolina .
he win he first election in 1928 , the office of the county superintendent .
from there , he have a 36-year career affiliate with the democratic party before he switch party in 1964 to support barry goldwater 's campaign for president .
it start a 36-year career of the republican party .
he gain national recognition as a segregationist .
much more ahead on he legendary and controversial career in just a few minute .
a man who have controversy , but know how to change with the time .
service and tribute for two political figure who die this week .
a funeral today for lester maddox who die wednesday .
he be a segrationist who once close a restaurant he own rather han serve african-american .
and maynard jackson lie in state today at he allah matter .
he die monday at the age of 65 .
jimmy carter speak yesterday at a tribute for jackson .
former president bill clinton expect to attend the funeral tomorrow .
and the pope will reportedly name a new head of the troubled boston archdiocese this week .
sean patrick o'malley , the bishop of palm beach , florida , be expect to replace cardinal bernard law .
that be accord to the national catholic reporter .
law step down in december amid charge of widespread child sexual abuse in the church .
a wildfire in california force hundred of people from they home .
the fire , near the historic state park start yesterday when a trailer , haul by a pickup , ignite on the golden state freeway .
the fire consume more than 500 acre be only about 35 % contain .
no injury have be report thankfully hat this time .
prompt 1 .
future election who do you think should run for President/Vice President in 2008 , and why ?
give detail about the people you suggest - they name , what they do now , and why you think they would do a good job as President .
some name that have come up in the press be Hillary Clinton , Colin Powell , Barak Obama , Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jeb Bush .
what do you think of these candidate ?
who would hate to see run for President in 2008 ?
Suzanne Hi , I be Suzanne from Philadelphia .
Sara Hi , this be Sara , from California .
Suzanne Hi .
Sara hey .
Suzanne so who do you think should run ?
Sara uh -- I do not know .
I be go to say , that be quite the topic .
um -- I have not think about it much .
I know my husband say he think -- that uh -- Colin Powell should -- but I do not think he will .
Suzanne I I do not he think will either , because he turn it down in two thousand and four .
Sara Right , and Suzanne Sorry , two thousand and -- two thousand .
Sara two thousand , yeah , the one before that .
Suzanne yeah .
Sara yeah .
uh -- I be not very fond of Hillary Clinton , so I -- I do not think I would go for she , but -- but uh what do you think ?
Suzanne um -- I be reluctant to see another Bush brother on the ticket for the Republicans Sara Mhm .
Suzanne but I think that put Jeb Bush would make h - -- the Republican ticket easier to defeat .
Sara Mhm .
Suzanne um -- I really do not think that Hillary Clinton -- would be -- a good choice for the Democrats .
Sara yeah .
Suzanne um I do not think Barak Obama would be a very good choice for the Democrats .
Sara Uh-huh .
Suzanne just because he be -- he be really young , and he be go to be start off he career .
Sara Uh-huh .
Suzanne um I would almost like to see John Edwards on the ticket again .
Sara Uh-huh .
yeah .
uh yeah .
do they ever do that one ?
that be n - the - that be happen before , have not it , where someone who -- who be defeat run again ?
Suzanne yeah .
Sara they do not do it very often , probably just because they figure if he lose once , he will Suzanne Well I I think he be a really good candidate , and four more year could really help he develop he um -- could help he develop -- hi - he voting record especially .
Sara Right .
Suzanne and I think that would help the democratic ticket a lot .
Sara Right , because that be something he get -- kind of -- uh -- get bring up a lot .
Suzanne yeah .
Sara Hm .
well , they -- let 's see .
Suzanne I mean , I would like to s - -- I would like to see the Greens run David Cobb again .
Sara Uh-huh .
uh see , hav - I have not pay much attention to they , I -- I kind of look at the -- the other list candidate -- but I figure -- they d - -- they d - none of they have enough support to get close , so Suzanne yeah .
Sara um -- try to think who else -- Arnold Schwarzenegger I do not think -- well he be not qualify anyway , but Suzanne Well , they might change something , you know , between now and then .
Sara I have hear people say that would take a -- I I do not think they will .
uh that take a Constitutional amendment .
that be pretty hard to -- to get through .
Suzanne Well , I mean , you live in California .
how be he do -- in you state ?
Sara oh , I think he be do all right , um -- I I -- he be a he be a moderate Republican , you know , he be not Suzanne Right .
Sara he be not uh -- hard core Republican , so he work pretty well with -- since this be this be mostly a democratic state .
he do pretty well .
Suzanne um -- they have be talk about get the canadian-born governor of I think Minnesota Sara Mhm .
Suzanne to run as well .
um Sara Hm .
Suzanne it would be the first woman run .
Sara Right .
have they never have a woman run before ?
I know they have Suzanne Well , Geraldine Ferraro -- well the first woman for a major party .
Geraldine Ferraro run Sara Uh-huh .
Suzanne as Vice President -- for the Democrats , I believe Sara Uh-huh .
Suzanne um -- in the eighty .
Sara Right .
Suzanne but they have never have a woman as a major candidate Sara Uh-huh .
Suzanne for President .
Sara Right .
yeah .
it be get to happen at some point .
Suzanne Right .
because Elizabeth Dole do not make it too well .
Sara Right .
yeah , she be she be go to be the -- be she go to be the Vice President Suzanne I think she be g - actually go for President herself .
Sara candidate ?
she be actually go for President ?
Suzanne I would like to see she come back .
um I think she be fantastic .
Sara Uh-huh .
yeah , I Suzanne and she be she be not too hard-core Republican .
Sara Right .
yeah .
I do not know .
this -- this uh -- last election be just over , I have not really start think much about the next one .
Suzanne Right .
do you think any of the s - any other state governor have a really good chance ?
uh I be Sara you know , I I mean obviously , if Schwarzenegger could run , he be get the name recognition , but I would be really surprise -- both to see he run and to see he win , but then again -- I be a little bit surprised when he win California , so
prompt 1 .
future election who do you think should run for President/Vice President in 2008 , and why ?
give detail about the people you suggest - they name , what they do now , and why you think they would do a good job as President .
some name that have come up in the press be Hillary Clinton , Colin Powell , Barak Obama , Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jeb Bush .
what do you think of these candidate ?
who would hate to see run for President in 2008 ?
a ah , but yeah , I do not know who should run , I do not think Hillary can uh can make it , to be honest with you .
b do not you ?
she would be my s - -- well you know what , actually , I like Dean a lot I must say , in this election .
and I think it be just a yeah .
yeah .
b stupid how much flack he get .
like I just -- I like the idea of bring in somebody a yeah .
b with a -- fresh , with a different perspective , who be not already just part of that whole political wheel .
a Right .
yeah .
b you know , because I think by the time they get to office , it really do not really matter who be , you know , a yeah , they be still under the gun of the same big b who be in there .
they be so a corporate giant or whatever .
B Well , that be right , that be right .
so um a mhm .
b yeah , so I do not know I w - I be quite excite to have somebody that be come from a really different perspective .
but that get shoot out of the water .
a Mhm hm .
b i I like Hillary .
I I a yeah .
yeah .
I like she , she be my Senator , of course .
B Well , of course .
that be right .
a but I do not I do not think she could make it .
b and I think she be a -- I mean she be a strong woman , you know in term of have a mhm .
Mhm .
b a a woman , potentially , as President , I mean , I think she be the strongest a do some reading b candidate we have have in a long time .
a do s - -- do some reading on the governor , of New Mexico , or be it Arizona , and particularly Kansas , and the governor of North Carolina .
b oh , really ?
a do some reading on those three people , those be some people you should be really look uh look at , if y - if uh b you be obviously a qu - -- a pretty politically savvy kind of guy , be not you ?
A Well , I be the one , who just happen to go home back in like nineteen eighty or something and see Bill Clinton B oh , yeah ?
a on on television .
he -- we ha - -- I come from a small town in Tennessee call Paris , and there be two station we can pick up , one b okay .
a from Jackson , a little town , and the other be from Nashville , a big town .
so we get most of we ~ tv from Jackson , so I be flip through the channel , and I see this little guy , uh the governor of Arkansas give a speech .
b yep .
a I say , that guy could be President .
b be that right ?
a I only hear about -- two minute of he speak .
you know , he be articulate , he be charming , he be young .
and I say , that guy could be president .
b yep .
Yep .
a and um so then when I hear he be run , those four year later -- uh , eight year later , whatever it be .
because it be a long time later .
b sure .
a I see he , and I be tell all my friend , oh , vote for vote for this guy , Bill Clinton , vote for he .
they be say , oh no , no , that old country -- dump .
he do not know nothing .
I say , he be a Rhodes scholar , he be smart .
he be and he be funny and he be good .
oh no , no , he be too young , and he come from that little , little podunk -- g - uh state he never do anything .
I say , he be go to be President .
I be tell all my friend .
I say , you know , and I be before -- they say , well , I think you support George Bush , and I say , well I do support George Bush , but he do not know what he be do and he need to go .
and uh so I say vote for he , vote for he , vote for he , you know .
and they vote for Jerry Brown and all these crazy people .
b yeah , that be right .
oh , be that right ?
a and I say , you be just waste you vote , why be you do that ?
he need you help .
so I go and volunteer for he and everything , and -- and I meet Hillary , and and Tipper and Al , and and I almost get to meet he .
b oh , be that right ?
really ?
a uh-huh .
I work at the Democrats Convention and everything .
uh-huh , yeah .
b very cool , very cool .
a and uh it be great , I have a good time , and they b what great experience .
a yeah , and they feed we , and have a party for we , all that kind of stuff , you know .
so it be fun .
but it work out .
but I think we they better go back to a governor from like uh B Well , sure .
a uh North Carolina , or like the one from Kansas .
she be very tall , she remind you of uh Christie Whitman , the governor of New Jersey , remember she ?
b yep .
okay ?
a she be tall , kind of -- mm bush -- butch .
ac - kind of .
she be uh you know , like she play basketball or something like that .
real smart , quiet-spoked but stern , you know .
b yeah , not not real feminine , yeah .
eh sure .
a and so I -- she she can give that demeanor that people like in leader , of be the big b well , people want to feel secure , right ?
and who be in that position ?
they want to feel that they be trustworthy and honorable , and I think , you know a yeah .
yeah , but b Clinton do so many fantastic thing during he term in office , but he shoot himself on the foot with all of he personal garbage , you know , and I think that overshadow how brilliant he be as President .
a yeah .
it do .
prompt 2 .
Workplace Culture describe the organizational structure of you current or former workplace .
how many people work there , and what be the hierarchy ?
who work for whom ?
what kind of job do you have ?
describe some of the people that you work with and the job they do .
do you think you company be well-run ?
if not , what could make it better ?
Jim hello .
Mark hello , hello .
Jim hey , I be I be Jim .
hi .
Mark Hi Jim , I be Mark .
Jim hey Mark .
Mark how be you do ?
Jim okay .
I guess it be uh -- about what you workplace , something .
Mark yeah .
Jim I do not quite hear all of it .
Mark yeah .
well , I guess , uh workplace culture be the Jim yeah .
Mark what you position be with the company , what kind of people be in the job you have with the people that work there , and I guess -- I guess the environment too , I be not sure Jim yeah .
Uh Mark the point of the question .
Jim yeah , it be kind of -- off -- bag a little bit to I , I do not know .
Mark yeah .
yeah .
Jim do not quite understand all of it .
um well I work I work I be i - in work in sale .
Uh -- work for a company , call Pacesetters Corporation .
Um -- it be a sale company , you know .
they do home improvement , like Sears Mark okay .
Jim actually , they be the largest -- home improvement -- company in the United States .
Mark Aha .
Jim oh , I be from West Virginia .
I do not know where where be you from ?
Mark I be from Connecticut .
Jim Connecticut .
nice and cold up there right now , huh ?
but Mark it be not too bad .
we be use to it .
Jim at least it be not twenty below .
Mark not yet .
Jim but um that be basically what I do , and -- I do not know .
Um Mark so do you have like a office that you be in a lot , or Jim Hm ?
well yeah , I have a office .
Uh not I personally , but we uh we all meet there and we we have we little sale meeting every morning .
Mark right .
uh-huh .
Jim and that be pretty much it .
I mean , we go over whatever -- whatever have to be -- talk about that day , and then they be all we just kind of -- go out and do we appointment in the afternoon , or in the evening .
you know , we have to meet with uh -- people that come to ~ K Mart or Sam 's Club .
they -- have a interest in home improvement , and they fill out stuff .
Mark ah .
Jim that be how they get they lead .
it be not any cold-calling .
Mark Mhm .
Jim we just pretty much go that way .
and -- you know , we have .
it say do how many people work there .
in we local office we probably have about ten .
with we sale manager .
Branch manager .
Mark yeah .
Jim it be about ten in the -- office .
that be in Fairmont , West Virginia , it be like -- oh , between Charleston and Pittsburgh .
Mark oh , okay .
Jim okay , so the ice will be annoying soon .
Mark I see .
Jim -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- -- yeah , I be from Morgantown .
Mark ah .
Jim if you be familiar with that area .
Mark vaguely , yeah .
Jim it would be kind of south of you .
actually south -- south Mark so , it be West from where I be , but y - Jim south southwest of you .
so yeah .
Mark Right .
but I have be to Pittsburgh , so .
Jim Mhm .
so yeah .
so you be in Pittsburgh , and you go a hundred mile to the south , or eighty mile south , you would be in Fairmont .
Mark okay .
yeah , I do go through -- West Virginia , one time through -- from Pittsburgh .
I have relative that live outside of Pittsburgh , once , and I go to Florida from there , so I do go through West Virginia .
Jim Mhm .
mm .
Mark unfortunately , I do not get to see too much of it .
I Jim it be all country , and all out in the middle of nowhere .
Mark I notice that too , yeah .
Jim Mhm .
-lrb- -lrb- it be no -rrb- -rrb- Mark beautiful country though .
Jim yeah , it be pretty and stuff .
if you be in the like a big city or even in -- oh well , I do not know where you live in Connecticut but -- I mean , be you like near New Haven or Mark Uh , no , I be a Jim or out more in the country ?
Mark between Waterbury and Hartford .
Jim Hartford , yeah .
such a big er city .
Hartford 's pretty big , right ?
Mark yeah , it be a good size .
Jim but I mean , I think we largest city in West Virginia 's like -- less than a hundred thousand people .
that be Charleston , the capital .
Mark be that right ?
Jim yeah .
Mark bigger than wheeling , huh ?
Jim we only have , we only have one point eight million people in we whole state .
Mark oh , okay .
prompt 2 .
Workplace Culture describe the organizational structure of you current or former workplace .
how many people work there , and what be the hierarchy ?
who work for whom ?
what kind of job do you have ?
describe some of the people that you work with and the job they do .
do you think you company be well-run ?
if not , what could make it better ?
Suzanne Hi , I be Suzanne , in Dallas .
Karim Hi , my name be Karim .
Suzanne Well , hello .
you want to tell I about yourself first , or you you want I to talk first ?
Karim I be from New -- I be from -- it be all right , either or .
Suzanne okay , well um -- I then I guess I can start with I .
um , I work for a software company .
Karim okay .
Suzanne Um in Addison , Texas .
and it be uh base on um stock recognition .
so it be stock recognition .
Software have red and green light , tell you which -- out of the thirty-five thousand stock out there , which one to get in and out of .
it be just the tool you use , and I be in the Accounting Department .
we have a thirt - Karim you be in the what what what department ?
Suzanne Uh , Accounting .
I do the number .
Karim oh , okay .
Suzanne yeah , I do .
uh I I actually do not do payroll , I do um account payable and receivable .
Karim okay .
Suzanne and when I start there , in two thousand and two , there be only twenty-three employee , and to date , we have about a hundred and forty .
Karim Mhm .
Suzanne we have , oh I know , we have boom .
it be just really incredible , um and Karim oh , good .
Suzanne what else ?
yeah , I love the way it be run .
um i work -- we just recently um get buy by we we strategic partner -- so , whoa , my radio .
I be sorry .
yes , we get uh purchase by we strategic partner , so um Karim Y' all recently get buy ?
oh .
Suzanne yeah .
it be just a one man um owner -- before , and so now , a cor -- a corporation own we , but I love it , I mean that be Karim oh .
Ho - -- Ho - hold on Suzanne that be all I can s - huh ?
Karim hold on one second .
hold -- hold on one second .
hold on one second .
Suzanne oh , absolutely , go ahead .
Karim what you say ?
why be you , why be you at um -- um -- I be go to come over here tonight .
I be spend the night over here .
all right ?
see you later .
it be so fucking stank yo .
hello ?
I be sorry .
Suzanne Uh n - no , you be fine , you be fine .
where be you um located ?
Karim I be so sorry .
I be in New York .
Suzanne oh , be you really ?
that be so wild .
I have talk to so many people in New York .
I have family up there .
what do you do for a living ?
Karim Um I be a youth counselor .
Suzanne A youth counselor .
what be that ?
Karim yeah .
I go um .
in in New York we have a lot of community center Suzanne Uh-huh .
Karim for the kid .
for the inner city kid .
Suzanne yeah .
Karim and um -- and that be what I do I I work for the city .
and uh Suzanne oh , wow .
Karim I start there in like -- uh I would say about -- what be that , I think it be -- two thousand two .
summer of two thousand two , yeah .
Suzanne yeah .
Karim I start there , and we only have -- it be only like maybe thirty kid that that come to the -- to the uh community center .
but now we get seventy-eight .
Suzanne oh , wow .
Karim so .
it be a little more you know , hassle to deal with , but you know , I love kid , you know that be why I I -- I stay with job , you know ?
because I -- now I be so attach Suzanne absolutely .
Karim with the kid now .
Suzanne Well do you uh Karim yeah we get about -- we get about -- I would say -- girl , when I start , it be like four counselor .
now it be about eight of we , eight or nine .
Suzanne aw .
Karim yeah .
Suzanne that be sweet though .
that be sweet that you Karim yeah .
Suzanne that you have get a heart and you care that much about child because I mean there be a lot of they , I be sure , that need -- that need the assistance , or the counseling .
Um Karim yeah .
yeah I I if it and eh -- I know I love the kid because the pay be not all of that good , so -- you know , but I manage .
Suzanne I be .
yeah .
Karim No .
well .
yeah .
exactly .
yeah , that be why that be the only thing that I I want to do , because there be so many kid now that -- you know with foster kid , they parent be on drug Suzanne oh , gosh .
Karim you know , or they living with they they aunt or they grandmother , you know -- it be a lot of kid like Suzanne and you just guide they ?
why and what do you do exactly , just guide they through that or Karim yeah .
exactly we we get uh we get a lot of program we get like basketball program for the kid to play basketball , volleyball , um we take they out on a lot of trip , lot of field trip .
we take they out on a lot of field trip and thing like that .
every Wednesday , we go down to the uh River Bank Park .
and you know , they get swimming , indoor swimming , and everything .
Suzanne aw .
that be so sweet of you though .
that be that be really neat .
Karim you know , yeah .
we we we be um try to run a uh we be sell these uh -- excuse I .
we be sell these cookie .
so we could raise raise money , so we could take they to Great adventure .
Suzanne yeah , yeah , do y' all have a website or anything ?
Karim No , we do not .
I wish .
Suzanne yeah cause Karim but in fact , you know , we do it on the street , you know , right in front of the the in front of the community center .
we just stand out there and sell cookie .
or we will do a car wash thing , you know , have it -- reward .
the fire hydrant and stuff .
or we wash people car for a dollar or two .
Suzanne aw .
that be cool .
Karim you know .
just to raise some money .
prompt 2 .
Workplace Culture describe the organizational structure of you current or former workplace .
how many people work there , and what be the hierarchy ?
who work for whom ?
what kind of job do you have ?
describe some of the people that you work with and the job they do .
do you think you company be well-run ?
if not , what could make it better ?
b and then we be not suppose to answer it .
well , um all I can say about big corporation -- be there be too many -- chief .
a yeah .
b always too many chief .
and with the constant merge with other bank , a yeah .
b ugh err .
a or well , and then you think of thing like Enron .
b oh yeah .
a I mean , you get -- corrupt chief too .
b yeah , they be everywhere .
the uh ~ ceo we have before we merge with Nations Bank -- he uh -- he about run as into the ground with some hedge fund that he have go into .
a uh-huh .
b and then , and then when we finish merge , they give the guy something like a twenty-five million dollar package , and if he die , he family still get all the money .
a no way .
b yeah .
no .
they would not do anything like that for I .
I have be there for a long time , I use to be a manager there .
there be no way I would get that kind of a -- oh .
so , yeah , once you get way up there , unless you be prosecute , you you just -- be constantly roll in the dough .
a yeah .
b and that be a long time ago , and we just c - oh , all that money , for just about bankrupt we .
that be crazy .
I think that be in ninety seven or eight a yeah .
b I think we merge in ninety-eight .
so , yeah , Bank of America 's everywhere .
and um -- mm -- Gosh I can not think of anything else to say about they .
I do not know .
they be all right .
they have good benefit .
a yeah .
b not good pay .
a yeah .
yeah I I be not really familiar with the working world that much .
so , I mean , with my part-time job , it be a lot it be really good for a student , because I only work uh two hour a night .
b oh that be good .
a so , yeah , and then it be pretty flexible .
like uh -- uh I be pretty busy with other , you know -- student organization , and hang out with friend and stuff , so I do not have to work on the weekend , and then I can take off sometimes .
so .
b yeah .
that be good .
a so a pretty good deal , and the cool thing about be like -- everybody at work be really friendly , b yeah , that be good .
a and uh I think really that what bring that on be we boss .
like he be just a really nice guy , and -- he be pretty lay back .
so .
b that come in handy .
a yeah .
b get to have a good boss .
a yeah .
b I do not know if there be any pudding in the refrigerator honey .
you get to go -- I I think you eat it all , but go look around -- I know there be still some more um Trix yogurt .
and I will buy pudding on Friday .
he be all upset with I cause there be no pudding .
yeah , I have have many many different kind of manager , and when they be lay back do not micro - manage -- you know , you definitely , work harder for they , and do a better job and a yeah .
do you ever see the uh movie Office Space ?
b yes , I do .
a yeah .
b yes I do .
it take I a second , but I sure do .
a yeah .
I always think about that like -- or a lot of I think college student think about that like with some office job , you know ?
b yeah .
it be uh a so .
it be kind of like , that be the job that they be t - everyone 's try to stay away from .
b yeah .
I do not think they be quite -- they they have get better .
I know the bigger company have try to -- stay away from that , cause uh -- the the that do wear you out .
I remember Bank of America be -- kind of like that in the department I use to work in , year and year ago .
a uh-huh .
b oh my God .
boring look wall , boring people , boring job .
a yeah .
b it it drain the life out of you whenever we have to go to work .
it just -- suck .
a yeah .
b but they try to make it more entertaining .
I think more company be go for the uh -- you know , employee satisfaction .
finally .
a uh-huh .
b th - that be the Bank 's big deal last year , be uh ninety percent associate satisfaction .
and they be all happy when they finally get there .
but we do not get anything for it .
they do not like give everybody bonus or anything .
Sheesh .
they because they get some better insurance policy and some better -- bonus that they pay out at the end of the month and -- you know , it be a little better .
a yeah , well , you get to make you employee happy , otherwise you be not go to come out with the next product .
you know ?
b that be right .
they be not go to work so hard for ya .
they be go to call out sick a yep .
b they be go to do -- you know , half-assed job .
that be exactly the way it be .
a it be just basic management .
b mhm .
exactly .
Mikey hold on , I will be off the phone in a minute .
a -lrb- -lrb- sure -rrb- -rrb- b sheesh .
a yeah .
I also , I work for uh , like kind of like a Subway , uh Atlanta Bread Company .
b yeah .
a so , and man , oh this be for a summer job , and my boss be like -- well he be also the owner
prompt 2 .
Workplace Culture describe the organizational structure of you current or former workplace .
how many people work there , and what be the hierarchy ?
who work for whom ?
what kind of job do you have ?
describe some of the people that you work with and the job they do .
do you think you company be well-run ?
if not , what could make it better ?
Bill hello .
Alexander Hi , this be Alexander from Minnesota .
Bill yeah , I be Bill from , uh , Tampa , Florida .
Alexander hey , g - interesting topic .
Bill yeah .
Alexander Eh , what kind of job do you do , sir ?
what do the work at you place ?
Bill Well , actually , I be self employ .
and I , uh , what I do be I -- whole sale -- car .
so , I I really do not have any worker , I just -- work by myself .
uh , I guess -- I just have one that help I once in a while to pick up car and -- deliver they .
but , uh , that be uh -- interesting that they call I on that .
Alexander so you guy -- but what kind of culture do you have if you work two people work , that should be some sort of every place have Bill but Alexander the atmosphere of , you know , how thing be do , who be in command and how , you know , decision be make , and Bill Right .
and they also do say that , uh , previous work place , too , so Alexander yeah .
okay , wh - uh I I Bill I can talk about that .
where wh - Alexander go a - go ahead , you can talk about you previous work place .
Bill yeah , wh - -- yeah , I be go to ask you where you work , too .
Alexander I work with a pharmaceutical company .
I we -- have a little over three hundred and some -lrb- -lrb- million -rrb- -rrb- employee .
Bill oh wow .
and what do you do there ?
Alexander you know .
I work as a patient care advocate .
and I -- I work as a onli - I do online , you know , online , uh , pharmaceutical company -- where I have -- fill and -- refill take order send back to we online .
Bill oh , okay .
that be interesting .
Alexander and , you know , and I have a company , as well , set up .
I think we have the account manager , and we have -- the vice president .
we have super - team lead - team lead , uh I and then have operation specialist .
we have , you know , I -- team manager , training manager .
it be a very big company .
yeah , and I think that the atmosphere be very good , I Bill Right .
Alexander yeah .
Bill Well , I think that be important to to have a good atmosphere and also , uh , uh , i - know who who really be in charge , uh , you know , and and know who you have to answer to .
because sometimes , y - I I I do I year ago I have a company that be , uh , it be , uh , I be a sub - s - captive sub-contractor for make packaging material .
and , um , there be a lot of salesman in the company , they have a tendency to , you know , there be there be , uh , a chain of command , you might say .
you know , there be , uh , the person that be the , uh , head of the organization .
but , all the salesman -- use to come around and give order , too , you know .
so it make it kind of difficult for the m - for my employee , because they would the salesman would be come out , uh , uh , without consult with the one that be in charge .
they would just be come out and give order when they should already go through he .
so it make it difficult .
so I I I think it be really important to h - have that really clear .
that that there be some organized way to deal with , uh , problem and order and thing like that , and if there be a problem , then -- you go to the person who be in charge and -- then they can handle it .
so , that be -- that that be just a you know , a -- previous , uh , type of work that I have .
and I and tha - I think that be what they want we to talk about , too , right ?
Alexander yeah .
yeah , that be that be that be I think it be just basically , be -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- one of the thing I perceive be if - what kind of , you know , environment be it , and be it invite be it , you know , all that they I guess that be what they be aim at .
you know , it be not a place where everybody try to give instruction and everybody try to do , you know .
uh , but I for my job be i - i - -- we have we a very diverse feel .
we have a lot of people who be from different country , and , you know , and -- I think they be pretty much accept , and I , you know , I - bas - basically you - you can promote yourself if you do a good job , I mean , they do not pick and choose , you know .
Bill Right .
Alexander it be a very -- environment that allow you to grow in .
and I think they think I rightfully do not , if -- like if I have a problem , like , I will freshly go to my team lead or the supervisor and she take it to she boss , and , you know , the boss take it to the next level and , you know , something like that .
Bill Right .
yeah , but that -- I feel like that that be very important .
uh , for a company to be well-run , it have to have , uh , a c - it be t - have to be able to send a clear message -- as to how to handle problem and who who be the one that be uh , uh , indicate for -- for those problem -- to handle .
and and people -- those in the company need to be um instruct -- to know wh - where they relative place be in the company .
so that they they do not overstep they bound .
Alexander yeah .
Bill because when that happen , and it that make , uh , that create problem for the employee .
it make they discontent .
I mean , if they if they can be , eh , um , you know , jump on arbitrarily by just about anybody , then pretty soon , you know , they be they be they be not go to be content at all , they be just go to wonder , well when when 's the next hit go to come , you know .
when 's somebody else go to jump on I ?
prompt 2 .
Workplace Culture describe the organizational structure of you current or former workplace .
how many people work there , and what be the hierarchy ?
who work for whom ?
what kind of job do you have ?
describe some of the people that you work with and the job they do .
do you think you company be well-run ?
if not , what could make it better ?
Roger Uh , Roger .
Diane hello , I be Diane Roger okay .
Diane I be from Lufkin , Texas .
where be you from ?
Roger Uh , Atlanta , Georgia .
Diane Georgia ?
okay .
Roger Mhm .
Diane oh , tell I about you workplace .
Roger I be go to say , you go first .
Diane okay , it do not matter .
you can or I can .
Roger you can go first .
Diane okay .
I own a restaurant .
and uh Roger oh those be good .
Diane yeah .
seventeen people employ there .
Um -- predominantly Hispanics work in the kitchen area .
they be uh -- well , actually , you know they be some of my cake decorator in the bakery area too .
they be it be it be predominantly a hispanic run organization .
I be not hispanic , but they uh I have hire uh Roger yeah .
Diane a couple that work out quite well , and then I have let they -- recommend family member and friend , and that seem to have be a really -- good setup , because they be -- recommend people that they know work well , and -- you know , it be it be uh and they be happy with who they be work with .
and I have sort of leave some of that up to they .
I have get a a manager that -- you know , she be -- I defer to she on who think whether she think I should hire somebody or not .
and I have have really good luck , because the restaurant business typically um Roger yeah .
Diane do not keep people very long .
it be a short term employment , and I have get people that be be with I for eight , nine , ten year now .
you know , long term employee , so Roger yeah .
Diane it be -- it be be a good setup .
Um -- you know , I have get the older one typically be the one that run the different department , you know the the -- deli area or the bakery area or the up front area , and -- the new one kind of defer to they , and -- it sort of run itself .
I feel really lucky .
I have get a I have get a really good crew .
Roger yeah .
Diane I think I have get a work situation .
Roger oh , okay .
Diane s - -- hey , tell I about yours .
Roger so you get -- you at the top , but you get a manager , huh ?
Diane Uh uh yeah .
I have get a girl that I have hire uh well , I hire she , let 's see , about nine year ago -- it be a hispanic girl but she speak fluent English and Spanish , so she can work with both -- you know either language problem .
Roger that be what you need .
Diane and she be uh -- hard worker , always there , um -- everybody -- she work with everybody rather than just tell they what to do , and they respect she and work for she quite well , so -- I be not work nearly as hard as I be a few year back .
tell I about yours now .
Roger okay , I um , work at a move company , Classic Design Services , Diane okay .
Roger and -- I be a driver -- and a loader and -- a lot of other stuff .
um I work for -- this guy name uh Joe , he be a regional -- bank manager for Wachovia for a few year .
and buy we company out from we previous owner .
um Diane do y' all do cross country ?
Roger I be kind of like -- huh ?
Diane do y' all do cross country move , or just local ?
Roger yeah , we do , um -- we have a uh -- a office in Phoenix , Arizona , and we do uh basically do continental ~ usa Diane okay .
Roger um move and -- pickup and delivery -- from all over .
Diane okay .
okay .
Roger and I work mostly in the local department and sometimes -- I um in -- you know , sometimes I get on the road and -- travel , but -- not not t - not too often .
Diane how many employee there ?
Roger so .
there be about , there be over a hundred and twenty now .
Diane Ooh , big big company then .
Roger -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- -- I use to know everybody .
and uh now it be -- now I do not know everybody , so .
it start off , when I first get there four year ago .
well , five year ago .
there be like , about -- thirty forty some people .
Diane Mm .
grow fast .
Roger so it kind of double , but uh -- um business have be come in , uh -- you know , we stop have slow season , and now it seem like it be always busy .
Diane yeah .
prompt 3 .
Bush Cabinet President Bush have just be elect to another term in office , and he have already start to appoint new people to he political cabinet as current member like Colin Powell and John Ashcroft resign .
who would you like to see appoint to he cabinet next term ?
who be they , and why do you think they should be appoint ?
if you be president , which national figure would you appoint to you cabinet and why ?
what new cabinet position would you create and who would fill they ?
a I I be sorry to see Colin Powell leave , leave .
I think he be probably one of the most -- diplomatic -- um , man that I have see in politics .
b so do I .
a he he be very honest , he be very strong in he belief , and I be sorry to see he go .
I be also sorry to see Tom Ridge resign .
um b I be too , and you know what , I do not where , do you know anything about he background ?
I do not know where he come from .
a he be the governor of , he be the governor of Pennsylvania .
b oh , that be right .
okay .
a and um after uh b now I remember .
a he before nine eleven , he be -- he be on a advisory committal -- committee -- to the Gover - to the President I guess , besides he run uh Pennsylvania , and then after nine eleven they appoint he you know , head of Homeland Security , and then create the b uh-huh .
a uh Secretary 's position for he , or for someone , but he be the person at that time .
I just think that b yeah .
yeah .
a it be so soon -- since nine eleven , and he have be create he own job , i - in essence , because it be such a new position .
but , I think it be -- it would have be -- better to have one person -- like continue that .
however , b I do too .
I I do too .
I hate to I hate to change -- change horse there so quickly .
a yeah .
b uh I I I would that -- that -- job uh uh need continuity -- for a while .
anyhow .
you know , I m - I mean , at least until they get a yeah .
b settle on what the job really be .
a yeah , well uh maybe maybe on one hand -- somebody new will bring a new perspective to it , which would -- be helpful , but I still think that b uh yeah a the people that be up for it -- there be some p - b yeah , but if it be if the perspective be too new , you know , that be not go to be a good thing , because uh wholesale change be not what they need to do .
a yeah .
yeah .
b uh uh no matter who take it over .
they need to they need to -- think long and hard before they start make change .
because if they make one wrong one , you know , it a but there be there be a couple woman up for -- the position as well as um you know , a few man that be up for the position .
and I do not know anything about the woman that be up for the position .
Um -- one -- two of the man be from New York , one be a Head of -- the the -- who be there at nine eleven .
he be the Chief of Police .
or the Commissioner -- of of police I guess .
Uh who be with Giuliani throughout the whole thing .
b uh-huh .
a um they be also think about Giuliani , so -- I mean , I think they have some qualify candidate .
b yeah .
a however , I think -- with it be Homeland Security , which mean it can not just be New York , which be where of course , they focus be go to be .
b sure .
a have -- you know , be there , and through that .
so , as long as they do not have blinders on , you know , I would be okay with that , but they have get to look , obviously -- at port -- nuclear power plant , you know , and oth - other area where we be vulnerable .
b yeah .
yeah , and you know what be really scary to I ?
I I do not I have never see it mention , I have never -- but -- but if they really want to to I do not know uh uh uh if they if they really want to put -- fear in the american people , uh -- I know it would work with I , be if they say just uh if if -- I say they , Bin Laden , or who whoever -- uh -- uh be run that team now , uh be to -- be to just pick a small -- Mid - american town , a Mhm .
b uh and just wipe it out , a yeah , no , and I I thi - I think that be a great fear .
b you know , and there be a lot of way -- there be a lot of way to do that .
I mean , I mean , it would not take a nuclear weapon .
a No , no .
b uh uh and it it could be do so easily because i - i - most small town be protect by a small town police force .
a Mhm .
b you know ?
and that be it .
A Well , I think that -- there be -- really -- be a strengthening , and I hope they can -- get it together without this .
part of the problem with that be the ~ CIA and the ~ FBI and who be go to be in charge because they want to create this new position .
b -lrb- -lrb- I -rrb- -rrb- no , they have always a and , so nobody want to -- give up -- power b yeah .
a and , you know , you -- in this case , and and go forward , we have to put the good of -- the country -- and the good of the world .
prompt 3 .
Bush Cabinet President Bush have just be elect to another term in office , and he have already start to appoint new people to he political cabinet as current member like Colin Powell and John Ashcroft resign .
who would you like to see appoint to he cabinet next term ?
who be they , and why do you think they should be appoint ?
if you be president , which national figure would you appoint to you cabinet and why ?
what new cabinet position would you create and who would fill they ?
Ron hello .
Sherri hello .
Ron Nah -- my name 's Ron .
I be in Kentucky .
Sherri oh hi Ron .
I be uh Sherri and I live in Indiana .
Ron oh , we be quite close .
Sherri yeah , not too g - -- we be neighbor .
Ron yeah , I know .
that be sort of unusual in these call , in my experience so far .
Sherri yeah , I too .
let 's see , my first call I get be from Russia .
Ron No , really ?
Sherri yeah .
Ron oh , I have not have any outside of the ~ US .
Sherri Eh uh I just that be just that one , my very first one be from Russia .
Ron I will be darned .
Sherri some gal .
Ron Ooh , I would love Sherri from Moscow .
Ron oh , I would love to get .
and it be Moscow , r - the Russia , not Moscow , Indiana ?
Sherri oh , definitely , it be it be Moscow , Russia , with a real russian accent , yeah .
Ron I mean ah Iowa , I mean .
oh my goodness .
Sherri yeah I I do not know it be international .
I think it be just you know the United States .
Ron yeah I too .
well , jeez , that will be something to look forward to .
I I would love to get someone from outside the ~ US .
Sherri Mm .
yeah .
Ron so uh what do you think about the uh topic of discussion this evening ?
Sherri I have be sort of surprised .
eh uh I -- I hear uh that Colin Powell want um -- to resign last year and they talk he out of it .
Ron Uh-huh , uh-huh .
Sherri or something like that and uh so -- I be still surprise this year when Ron oh thi - you be surprise that he yo - that he decide to step down .
Sherri yeah I I I still be uh -- kind of surprised .
Ron oh , huh , how interesting .
Sherri eh -- and uh -- and then uh with Condoleezza Rice .
they be appoint she ta - to a new position , and I be surprise about Ashcroft .
Ron Uh-huh , uh-huh .
Sherri I be not like it and then Tom Ridge yesterday .
Ron yeah , I see that .
yeah , I I uh that one I think one probably be the one that most surprised I .
I have not I have not really think about it .
I -- Colin Powell do not surprise I .
Ashcroft surprise I a little bit um but um I sort of start to think he might step down because evidently he be be he be consider somewhat of a lightning rod for um you know some of he more controversial stand and stuff so .
Sherri Uh-huh .
Ron but and and so have you be follow the uh the propose nominee ?
I mean do you think Sherri Kellogg , the Kellogg guy .
Ron oh yeah , that be right .
where 's he go to Commerce ?
be that where he be head ?
Sherri yeah , that be it , huh ?
Ron yeah , I do not know anything about he .
I I do not know .
do you know anything about he ?
Sherri Mm .
well , all I know be that that be like a real prestigious uh position , you know to be the what the ~ ceo of Kellogg ?
Ron yeah , yeah .
I guess it sort of concern I that uh you know we be look at yet uh another corporate head come into the government .
I sherri mm .
ye - ye - you know , this be like a -- uh it be a re - -- I think we have a real problem .
that be uh -- you know almost like a big beast you know that be right there and we do not even identify it Ron Uh-huh .
uh-huh , uh-huh .
Sherri way way way more than we realize .
Ron yeah , I I think you be probably right and I think it -- maybe even particularly true under this President , although I do not think it be just limit to he .
I think it be a common problem in the ~ US .
Sherri I f - -- I uh I think i - i - it be uh more evident now than ever .
Ron Uh-huh , uh-huh Sherri you know , really um -- tremen - tremendously a ruling and reign .
Ron do you um Sherri I think it it be a global uh have a global effect .
Ron yeah .
Sherri I think that be why Al-Qaeda -- take down the the uh twin tower .
eh w - they be make a a statement .
uh I think something like that possibly , that it have to do with corporate America .
Ron Uh-huh , you mean about the corporate thing ?
Sherri Hm ?
Ron Uh you mean because of its -- what it represent around corporate America or something ?
be that what you think .
Sherri I think what corporate America represent -- you know the the financial scheme of it all , the Ron Uh-huh , uh-huh .
Sherri the it just how it eff - effect the globe , Ron Mhm .
Sherri and how eh it effect third world country and you know just the whole thing .
it be just Ron Mhm , mhm .
uh-huh .
Sherri it be a you know like a a a wealthy despotism or something like that .
Ron so any thought on who you uh you would name ?
Sherri -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- -- you know who I would name ?
I know this be really wild .
Ron do you suppose ?
uh-huh .
Sherri but uh I do not know you will probably really laugh but I do not know , I I I always think that -- Ralph Nader be kind of a a character Ron oh .
uh-huh .
Sherri but what I really I mean I really listen to what he say when he be be interview Ron Mhm .
Sherri and in just a few word , he do not mince any meat or anything , in a few word he say so much that be so Ron Uh-huh .
Sherri like -- like a clarion call it ring so clear .
you could hear what he be say and it be really make sense , and I think he be a expert Ron so who would y - what would you appoint he to ?
Sherri on Ron any particular position ?
I mean , I think that be a good idea .
Sherri eh -- there be something to do with the economy y - you know for the with the to deal with the Ron yeah .
Sherri just uh -- like a a equa - e - economic equilibrium or something .
Ron he might be be good at -- yeah , he might be good at commerce instead of that Kellogg 's guy .
prompt 3 .
Bush Cabinet President Bush have just be elect to another term in office , and he have already start to appoint new people to he political cabinet as current member like Colin Powell and John Ashcroft resign .
who would you like to see appoint to he cabinet next term ?
who be they , and why do you think they should be appoint ?
if you be president , which national figure would you appoint to you cabinet and why ?
what new cabinet position would you create and who would fill they ?
a and the one that , oh what be the -- the guy that , um -- Tom Ridge just re - resign yesterday .
he be another one that be -- I do not really know that much about he .
I mean , I guess he be kind of the first -- one on that homeland security or , in charge of that .
but I hear that they be go to -- one of the possible candidate be the the guy he use to be the chief of police of New York .
well that be somebody to I that be go to have some good -- insight into , you know , what it take you know -- to -- keep a city secure .
you know , because New York , I do not know if you have ever be there b yeah , I go there -lrb- -lrb- before -rrb- -rrb- a have have have get some -- different rule from Texas as far as -- you know you know , run the city .
I mean I , there be a lot lot more people dense population up there than there be in in Texas and they probably would have uh the pol - uh the police chief would probably know -- well what can work in like , airport or , you know , thing , situation like that .
he be , he be a pretty good -- pretty smart person .
but I , it do not -- I can not remember he name , but -- the , I see a interview with he , and -- how he , uh -- run New York and uh -- you know , some of the -- ru - you know , they change some of the rule , uh -- uh , not rule , but the way they -- uh b the management team a protect the city .
the the police kind of change they tactic and , because there be a lot of -- oh -- run down area , and a lot of crime and they , you know -- get -- clean it up , and and -- they pass some law that say , you know , you could not , I think it be like , um -- you know , like homeless people that -- carry -- uh -- you know , shop cart , or something like that , and it sound -- small -- to outlaw that .
but they outlaw that because they say a lot of people be steal stuff .
they would stick they in the shopping cart and push they down the road .
you would not know , oh , they be just a homeless person .
well they cut that out and they find out -- it cut down on the theft .
uh -- I guess people -- hide they in they basket and -- or take something and then stick in they basket and the police never -- you know , bother they .
well , the homeless people -- I guess , they need they shopping cart , so they kind of go elsewhere , so -- um -- I mean it be a small thing , but it be , they just figure out , they be -- you know , uh -- learn from experience on what they need to do in the -- city and -- I think he would be a good -- candidate for the Homeland Security , run that .
b but , eh , for the foreign po - uh this be all all what you be say be like , about the internal -- but what about the external policy or something like that ?
whom do you think would be suitable ?
a the what now policy ?
b like , eh , foreign po - or international policy or external or a mhm .
b uh , whom do you think -- would be suitable for this position ?
a to run foreign policy ?
Um -- like , uh -- well , it be -- Colin Powell be Secretary , be he Secretary of State ?
be that what that be ?
b yeah .
a and Condoleezza Rice be go to step into that position , the way I understand it , uh .
b yeah , that be right .
a yes .
you know , she may be -- uh uh uh , you know , uh -- a uh Bush yes person , you know , I do not know , uh b yeah , so I I do not think this will change too much I mean .
a well mo - most -- most -- aide to the President , if it be -- you know , I guess when it be Clinton it be , they would probably be kind of yes people too , but , I mean they pick the person to -- you know , help they and I guess they be go to have to have -- philosophy and and -- run it the way they would or way they would want , uh b yeah , actually I agree with you .
I think uh -- during , uh , Clinton time uh -- the uh like international policy or the external policy be -- be much better than -- uh what what be happen right now , so .
I think if we take Bill Clin - Bill Clinton as like , as a foreign policy -- he he would be he will do a very good job .
I I would say .
a Mhm .
b uh , do you think there be uh -- some other , uh like -- position have to be have be -- have to be create , like uh -- for the next election .
a I be s - -- say that again .
I do not understand .
b I mean , I mean , be there any other , eh , position or -- Uh , like uh , have to be create like the -- uh -- election .
I mean -- uh , for example they they make , uh -- a position for like , uh -- internal eh , security -- I I think after , eh September eleventh a mhm .
b they create a position like that .
do you think there be -- some other position have eh have to be create ?
a I do not think so .
I do not think you need -- uh -- you never know what be go - go to happen , I mean um -- what could -- you know , there could be something hap -
prompt 3 .
Bush Cabinet President Bush have just be elect to another term in office , and he have already start to appoint new people to he political cabinet as current member like Colin Powell and John Ashcroft resign .
who would you like to see appoint to he cabinet next term ?
who be they , and why do you think they should be appoint ?
if you be president , which national figure would you appoint to you cabinet and why ?
what new cabinet position would you create and who would fill they ?
a um -- and then I I do not -- know who would you who else would you -- well what about Ruly -- Rudolph Giuliani B Well .
I do not know .
I you know what ?
I think -- I think Rudy Giuliani be a great mayor -- for nine eleven .
a Right .
b I do not think he be a great mayor the whole time he be a mayor .
A Well , I I be a new Yorker , and I get to tell you that I I think nine eleven I I think -- basically make he .
other than that , I think he be a little too decisive .
b yeah .
a uh not I should not say decisive , too divisive .
b yeah , I think he a as far as -- the race relationship in this city .
you know , it do not take much to to please -- the other side .
and that and that be what government be all about .
b no , it do not .
a and he -- he be not -- he be not too much of a good uh b he he would have go out as a mediocre mayor have it not .
and I but even even say that I can not begrudge he .
but he do a great job in the crisis .
some people do better in crisis .
a yeah .
exactly .
exactly , exactly , I I think that nine eleven make he and b yeah .
a and at that point in time , he want to stay on , which be sort of sort of ridiculous .
b and if if if I do not think the rest of the country know that , because they do not know what he do before nine eleven , because they do not pay any attention .
a eh -- exactly .
exactly , of course , you be right , you be quite right .
b and -- I think that if he do get a government agency , it would have to be one that be have crisis a lot of time I mean , he would just have to devote himself to that .
if he could just do that , it would be fine .
a it be a good point .
b but if he get if get into a lot of policy making and stuff that for other thing , you know , a yeah , yeah .
yeah , I I I I know I one of the b I do not know .
probably would be a good attorney general , he do that a it could very well , he do a good job , you be right , he probably could follow in what be he name 's footstep .
b you know .
I think I think the case that he pick and choose probably I would not necessarily put on top of the list , but he do seem to a right .
b prosecute everybody evenly .
a yeah .
that much I think we can we can probably agree with .
he will probably do that evenly .
b yes .
right .
a I you know who I think would have make a great , uh well I I know you guy have you own political uh struggle in Jersey .
b right .
yeah .
a um and uh b it be a soap opera .
a oh it certainly be , I I see the footage .
I b right , right , all of a sudden .
I will tell you this .
within one day , everybody I meet say -- oh , McGreevey , sure , I know that .
a oh really ?
b that become the national thing to say in Jersey , and in Jersey .
like , everybody know it , I would be like , you do not .
nobody know that .
a In Jersey ?
yeah I think I be -- I think I be -- I be on a cruise , and I put on the television uh when I get in at the six oh clock news , and bingo , there he be , uh resign as governor of uh New Jersey .
I say , you have get to be kid I .
b yeah .
a but uh -- I think he would have make a name for himself .
um -- I I can not think of anyone anyone that anyone else out there that um -- that warrant .
I mean , you know , you just b no .
a pick people who I think will uh -- have the experience in government .
well not in , not in government , but in the private sector .
Um -- who be responsible , and um -- put they in a position to lead .
B Well , yeah , I think uh -- apparently -- the President like people that be the same philo - -- political philosophy as he , and I be not sure I mean I think he just need some other voice in there , but a that be right .
b I do not know if it will happen .
it be a that be a good point .
well , I b or not .
he he need some liberal in there and he need some -- Ralph Nader people , and some Green Party people , and some , just some .
A Well I I think more conservative , what do you call they ?
conservative uh -- um -- um what do you call they ?
uh conservative uh -- more -- oh bloody he - b ideologue ?
a I yeah well I guess you could look at it that way , yeah .
b eh a um .
um .
I do not particularly like the the tone about the the religious uh -- side of -- the that election .
I I think that be a little crazy .
b yeah , I think pretty wack .
a if it be one thing we need to be careful about , it be separate the Church from B exactly , I be a pastor , and that bother I .
a and -- uh -- yeah .
oh I I be glad to hear some uh a actual pastor who say that .
I I I think that we need to make sure that that that b yeah .
a that stay the way it be .
I think it serve everyone well .
B Well , for one thing , it it end up as the uh -- government official be those seek office , and uh -- preach and teach to people , and that be my job .
a Right .
I agree .
b that be what I do .
you mind you stuff , I will tell my people what we be do .
prompt 4 .
Peterson Trial Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
do you think he be guilty of the crime he be be convict of ?
if so , what be he motive ?
how closely do you follow the trial and what do you think of all of the media coverage of the trial ?
what kind of sentencing should Peterson receive ?
Christina Hi .
Greg Hi .
Christina I be Christina from Connecticut .
Greg I be Greg from Columbus , Ohio .
Christina oh , okay .
Ooh , Scott Peterson .
I be like , I get to talk to someone about this .
I have to voice my opinion .
well , no , I mean you could go or , well Greg Uh , I -- okay , go ahead .
hey shoot , you get more sense than I do .
Christina okay , I -- have be follow the trial , I do not know why , ever since this whole thing happen .
I be a stay at home mom , so I get to watch the ~ tv more often , and I -- you know have be fo - -- watch all these forensic pathologist , Dr. Henry Lee .
you know , and and what I see be that there be no physical evidence that he do it .
and yeah , it sound like he do do it because he dye he hair , be try to get away , and the anchor and a boat .
but there be -- -- I for some reason , deep down in my heart , do not believe he do it .
and you know and I think the media make he guilty , and I think -- it be like you know , I mean you see what happen outside the courtroom , I do not know if you do or not , see how they be cheer on .
I do not think he be guilty and , I hope he do not get the death penalty .
and -- I do not know .
I I just do not think he be guilty .
I think he be wrong , what he do , everything , he cheat on he wife , that be so wrong , but -- that do not make he a murderer , he be just a cheater , he be just a -- you know , like one hundred ten percent you know eighteen karat -- asshole , like i - Mar - Mark Geragos call he .
Greg yeah .
Christina how about you ?
you probably think he be guilty , or Greg Well -- yeah , no I , I think , I think -lrb- -lrb- the guy 's -rrb- -rrb- definitely guilty uh just base on , I have not follow it all that closely , although you can not help but follow it closely because there be so much crap on the news .
Christina Mhm .
Greg but uh no i - the -- uh the I think well first of all , you know I agree with you , I think cheating on you wife 's pretty low .
but I think what happen i - it be live the b - uh live large .
you could tell both of they uh you look some of the thing they have , you know , he have a few buck or so .
-lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- finish , thing be get he down , uh you know , you know how it be , day after day though -- m - marriage be not all that wonderful .
Christina Right .
Greg Eh , you know and I do not think he have face that , and plus , you know , a lot of the neat stuff from the outside , and particularly Amber Frey , who I do not particularly think be neat , but it be something that uh you know he go after Christina Mhm .
Greg and so uh he figure , well -- these will , these thing would get rid of she I guess .
I do not , I do not know why like he uh , the wife 's or the mother say divorce be a option I think .
Christina yeah .
I know , that be very powerful .
not , you know , not murder and , oh , I mean , I do not know .
Greg but -- you know , I I can see , the guy be not think right .
he be screw up , you know , a despicable human being and he , just -- you know , the easy way out .
this will work , I guarantee I be too damn smart .
Christina but you know what , it be like I think they do not want to find he guilty because remember when ~ oj be not find guilty ?
I mean , oh my God , the , you know , but it be like , ~ LA would have like , turn ~ LA upside down , like all the , you know Greg yeah .
Christina I - it just , I do not know what would happen if he be find guilty , but now I think they say that they want to prove that -- you know , okay , we be not go to let this guy walk , like , do not let this guy walk either , big high profile case .
Greg Well , yeah you have to look , see , I think the locale , that both of they take place , and one take place in ~ LA , which be terribly open - mind and , uh , the other one take place in uh , Mida - well , uh -lrb- -lrb- redoak -rrb- -rrb- City .
Christina Mhm .
Redwood City , yeah .
Greg and who , Redwood City be one of those thing that would , uh shift San Francisco and ~ LA to , uh , to a red state rather than a blue state if you let they .
it be very , very conservative there .
prompt 4 .
Peterson Trial Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
do you think he be guilty of the crime he be be convict of ?
if so , what be he motive ?
how closely do you follow the trial and what do you think of all of the media coverage of the trial ?
what kind of sentencing should Peterson receive ?
Alithia Hi .
I be Alithia .
um , uh , Scott Peterson trial .
a -lrb- -lrb- do you - -rrb- -rrb- Alithia ah .
a the only reason i - I , uh , actually pick to do this one be I live in Redwood City , so .
Alithia Redwood , where 's that ?
a um , it be northern California .
Alithia oh .
a where the trial 's at .
Alithia and the trial 's there .
a yes .
Alithia oh , you pick you own -- you pick you own topic ?
mm .
a No , I just pick it .
they just call I and I be like -- I hear Scott Peterson and I be like , yeah , I know what the question 's go to be about .
Alithia yeah , I hear something about it .
I do not know .
I - I do not know if he be - if he be guilty or not .
what do you think ?
a I think so .
I think he get into a argument with she and he push she .
and I think she fall and maybe she hit she head or something and it kill she , so he panic .
Alithia what about the baby ?
a I do not think he -- you know , I thi - I do not know .
I don - eh , you know , because -- th - well , with the baby and stuff , you know , she be still pregnant at that time , so .
Alithia oh .
a you never know .
Alithia yeah , because I be really -- I be not really follow it that much because I be - a yeah .
Alithia but -- -lrb- -lrb- but I would love to have he hair -rrb- -rrb- something just come off the ~ tv about the Scott trial .
a yeah .
where be you at ?
Alithia I be in South Carolina .
a oh , okay .
yeah .
I live in Redwood City , which they actually move the trial here a couple month into it .
um , from Modesto , California .
Alithia oh .
a where he have commit the murder , so .
Alithia okay .
a yeah , we be a pretty small town , so we newspaper cover it a lot .
still do , I be kind of sick of hear about he , but -- e - hopefully this will be the end of it .
Alithia yeah .
a once they sentence he -lrb- -lrb- I bet -rrb- -rrb- .
Alithia yeah .
hopefully , you know , if he be guilty hopefully , you know , they find he guilty -- and hopefully they have evidence , you know .
do you know if they have , like , evidence and , a yeah .
Alithia you know , against he or whatever ?
a there be so much evidence , you know , it be -- a lot of it could not be use , a lot of it be use in that , you know , what they use against he .
Alithia how would -- do they , like , find , like , eh , you know , fingerprint or whatever ?
a um , no .
um , they bring the boat down , or a duplicate of the boat to , kind of , you know , get a feel for it but they have to remove it from Redwood City because people be put flower in it in -- memory of Laci and , you know , plant flower around it and stuff , so it be pretty interesting .
Alithia oh , yeah , that be cool .
eh , do you all -- do you all know she , or ?
a but I - -- what ?
Alithia do you all know Laci , or ?
a um , a friend of mine 's sister use to work in a maternity wear store and Laci Peterson , the day before she disappear , be in she store maternity shopping .
Alithia oh .
a so , yeah , it be my friend 's sister -- who live in Modesto .
Alithia oh , okay .
a yeah , so , it kind of hit close to home with she , she be just -- you know , because she kind of feel like she know she and Alithia Right .
yeah , I think it be very sad , you know , just hear about it .
a yeah , it be -- it be -- a whole long process .
they have be at this for almost three year , so .
Alithia three year ?
a yeah , it be almost be three year .
Alithia oh , I think it be just get on ~ tv over here .
a No .
yeah , it might be over there , but it be be on here for a long time .
Alithia so , it must have just go local and then then go national a Alithia oh .
a you know , we be close to the trial so of course it be go to be in the newspaper every single day .
so , it be , you know , and the trial , the , um , what be it call , the verdict , be actually read by audio over the ~ tv .
so it it be pretty -lrb- -lrb- depressing -rrb- -rrb- Alithia Mhm .
be this the case that be try to , um , uh , they be try to - to get a new juror ?
a mm , Alithia be that -- be that the one where somebody call a news - a they be try to get a what ?
Alithia a new * jural -- a new dir - -- they do ?
a oh , they already do .
yes , a long time ago .
Alithia because somebody have -- call the news people .
a yep .
they already do , a long time ago , um , actually a couple day before the verdict be be put on .
Alithia oh really ?
a yes .
Alithia because that be what they be still talk about he - in these papers here .
a yeah , they do that a while back .
Alithia oh my goodness .
a so , it be now get wind to you area .
Alithia so we be - this - we be so late over here .
a you know , we get pretty much the information -lrb- -lrb- hey , it be mom and , -rrb- -rrb- hold on .
Alithia okay .
prompt 4 .
Peterson Trial Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
do you think he be guilty of the crime he be be convict of ?
if so , what be he motive ?
how closely do you follow the trial and what do you think of all of the media coverage of the trial ?
what kind of sentencing should Peterson receive ?
Hillary hello .
Kelly hello ?
Hillary Hi , my name be Hillary .
Kelly hey , hello .
my name 's Kelly .
could you hold on for a second ?
Hillary Sure .
Kelly one , okay .
hello ?
Hillary Mhm .
Kelly Hillary ?
Hillary yeah .
Kelly hey , yeah , okay .
Hillary it be uh Kelly so the Hillary a pretty -- depressing topic for today .
Kelly yeah , I guess so .
the truth be I do not really , uh , I do not really know much about that topic .
I do not really follow the trial very closely at all Hillary we do not have , uh , cable so we purposely do not watch the trial , but I read about it on the internet .
Kelly so Hillary and basically Kelly oh , really ?
Hillary he -- kill he wife when she be -- eight month pregnant and -- and dump she in , uh -- the ocean , basically .
Kelly so why be it so special ?
why do that , uh -- particular case make -- the the national news ?
Hillary I think it be because it be in such , it be like a , um Kelly like Hillary it be -- in such a quiet , upscale community where it happen and -- um just I think the fact of she be eight month pregnant , um , draw a lot of attention and Kelly yeah .
Hillary of course people be worry about she for a long time and then they find she and blah blah blah .
it be -- gossip , basically .
Kelly -lrb- -lrb- yeah , right . -rrb- -rrb-
oh , but the mistress have nothing to do with the murder ?
Hillary I think -- yeah , cause he find out , they find out he have a mistress , and then it be like , oh -- yeah .
be -- I do not think , I do not think so , but who know ?
I do not know .
Kelly Right .
Hillary very sad cause she have a child herself and so she drug she son through a lot of -- uh , drama that he do not need to be part of .
Kelly wait , what happen ?
Hillary I do not know .
she have a son too , so he he also get put -- um -- you know , in the spotlight a bit , from what I understand .
I do not , I do not have tv though , so I do not really know .
Kelly oh , the son of the , right right .
Hillary of -- of he girlfriend , yeah .
Kelly yeah .
Hillary I do not know .
I hear though , that he be go to be -- the first person to be -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- um -- uh -- kill for a crime in California in like , thirty five year or something .
oh .
Kelly oh , really ?
Hillary I do not know if they have , I do not know if they have -- um -- give he the death penalty yet .
but I think he would be the first in , in a really long time to actually -- be kill .
Kelly yeah , that be amazing .
Hillary I do not Kelly Um -- why , uh , now why do they decide that this be to be this big -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- out of this with the most heinous crime in all of California ?
Hillary well , you know Kelly I mean I guess that be not how they decide who die , but it be because of the Hillary you know , and Kelly the , uh , cou - , like the -- the court that they go to , like the area do not Hillary well , I do not know why they decide on this , I think it be because it be so public of a case .
but they have a lot of Kelly yeah .
Hillary they have many many worse crime go on in California , parent kill they child and everything , that you would think -- would would , um -- you know , be Kelly Hearing more .
Hillary be more Kelly Stringent penalty , Hillary yeah , but they do not , they ignore those because this one get on television , I guess .
Kelly keep like -- uh , the jury from watch ~ tv and the media and stuff .
but I guess now -lrb- -lrb- it be , uh -rrb- -rrb- -- pretty much impossible -- to do .
Hillary I i do not know .
I never really get the whole -- watch it on ~ tv and and get into the whole -- mystery of it because , in the end , the woman 's dead and so be she child and -- and -- there be -- really no way of change that I guess .
Kelly yeah , uh , I think it be kind of strange how it be so publicize .
like I be just , seriously , like I do not , like I try not to watch , like -- too much , like Hillary you can not help it sometimes .
Kelly yeah I know .
but it just amaze I that , uh , I think it be ridiculous how publicize -- how much publicity it get because -- I mean there be like human rights violation go on all around the world .
I mean there be like , genocide in Sudan right now but like , nobody talk about that .
that be like -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- Hillary oh yeah and what be go on in , I know and people -- flock , flock to the store to buy all they -- all they foreign make goods and it be like what be you -- do ?
obviously they do not really care about what be go on .
they just like to hear the detail .
maybe if they could hear the detail about other thing they would be more involve .
I do not know .
Kelly Um -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- it be almost like , uh -- -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- diversion but it just seem like they just make it into like , like a soap opera for people to watch , you know ?
Hillary Well you know , some people be glue to they ~ tv for week , and it be just to disturb that that would be they -- they main entertainment during the day .
Kelly oh yeah , definitely .
it be creepy .
Hillary especially when there be so many other thing they could be do .
we have three kid .
I could not sit around all day and watch a murder trial on ~ tv , especially with my kid around .
prompt 4 .
Peterson Trial Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
do you think he be guilty of the crime he be be convict of ?
if so , what be he motive ?
how closely do you follow the trial and what do you think of all of the media coverage of the trial ?
what kind of sentencing should Peterson receive ?
a uh , there there be something about this Scott Peterson trial , though , that the th - that I can not I can not recall hearing .
do the -- be they still go to try to get he with , uh , the death penalty or be they -- -- or be they go to be content with just , uh , just , you know , give he life , uh , have hear about that ?
b um , a I mean , be be they still go to go after he with al - with all they -- all of they ability ?
eh , you know , be they -- be they be - b I think if they do -- if they -- th - I think that they can -- because -- in California , uh , the baby be consider a person a yeah , yeah .
so , th - then a - b and they have a little bit about that at church last week -- when I go to church service , or the week before , I can not remember , but , um , it -- I kind of thought then -- that , uh , when I first hear about the case , let I just back up a little bit .
a yeah .
b when I first -- hear the case , or about it , I -- tell myself , if he do do it , a yeah , he probably do .
b and I think he do , a yeah .
b uh , if he do do it , I -- think to myself , he will probably get -- the maximum sentence of whatever it be A Well , he he he probably will , yeah .
b because of the baby a yeah .
b and , to I , I -- do not believe even -- eh , exactly , you know , fetal state , I believe that that be a baby -- that could have live .
a Right , a human being , yeah .
b so , to I , I would not -- he - it would not have be good if he -- if I have be on he jury .
a mm , yeah , I see what you mean .
b I could never vote , I mean , to let he go .
A Well , you know b I c - but , now , I do not know that I would vote for a death penalty because I be not sure that a -- a death cancel out a death .
a Right , yeah .
b I be not -- -- I I do not know , and -- I would not really be able to vote -- on that because my father be kill at work .
a oh , I be sorry to hear that .
b so , you think you -- -- so , you know , I I have get two thing that probably -- I would be disqualify on that kind of a jury .
a yeah , maybe so .
B Well , I be pretty sure of it .
A Well , uh - b but , uh , believe it or not , I do still feel sorry for he a uh , wh - yeah , I do too .
I feel sorry for he .
b because , uh , a he be go to be in the b more so for he family -- m - more so for both family -- because I know that from my own experience , we be the one 's that be leave .
A Well , he be also be , uh , you know , drag through , uh , the media , you know , uh , b now , to to I that be a the nation-wi - nation-wide med - the natio - b totally unfair .
a oh , you mean be drag through the media like that ?
yeah , it it be unfair , yeah .
b yeah .
that be wrong .
a you know , he be have th - he be have th - b eh , I I do not know , though , if it be because it be sensational lie .
the case be so different a w - well it be a - b and horrible .
a it be a pretty sensational case , all right , yeah .
b and then when they drug in , I re - I can not -- that Amber Frey , and then also that , um , a I be in th - b Gloria Allred , a yeah , Amber 's the attorney .
b any time you bring in Amb - er , I mean , Allred , I be not against she , I like she , eh , at time , but -- when they bring she in -- and this other woman , I though , uh-oh , any chance he have of any -- of any kind of a trial that be , uh , not what I call sensationalize , be over .
A Well , yeah .
uh , I agree with that , yeah .
b over .
Forge - a you know , she be , eh , in -- always ruling in , uh , in , uh , what be the word I be look for , uh , possessive -- no , not possessive but protective -- of , um , of , uh , she client , um , just , um , wh - what be she name ?
b Amber ?
the - the girl ?
a yeah .
he be o - yeah .
she be always ready to bite anyone 's head off that ha - have anything , you know , slightly wrong abo - you know , uh , ow , or amiss about Amber .
B Well , you know , you may think I be a little -- crazy , but at first when I hear about , uh , Frey , when I first hear about she , I get worry that maybe it be -- both of they a no , yeah , may - b because they be -- I have never totally -- believe -- that Peterson do this all by himself .
a she may have -- she may have , uh , plant the idea in he head , you know .
b yet something tell I , and -- I think -- that he actually -- be so involve she , th - Amber , a yeah .
b that if -- she have anything to do with this , I do not think he would ever tell .
I do not believe he would ever tell on she .
a yeah .
uh b there be the impression I get .
I kind of , uh , watch he at different time when they would mention she a yeah , he he seem to be be very vili - he seem to be most most un - at - eh , un-at-ease b and I just think that a when they be talk about Amber .
b right .
a yeah .
uh b and that catch my eye .
I do not know if it be because I be a woman but , um , I think , uh-oh , a hm .
b because at that time , uh -- right now , I have be , like , totally busy with , uh , holiday , you know , so a yeah .
yeah .
prompt 4 .
Peterson Trial Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
do you think he be guilty of the crime he be be convict of ?
if so , what be he motive ?
how closely do you follow the trial and what do you think of all of the media coverage of the trial ?
what kind of sentencing should Peterson receive ?
Mohammed Hi .
good evening .
Jean hello .
Mohammed how be you do ?
Jean Good evening .
my name be Jean , and I be in Arizona .
Mohammed oh , from Arizona , Jean .
how be you do ?
Jean I be fine , thank you .
and what be you name ?
Mohammed ah , this be Mohammed , call from New York .
Jean Mohammed , call from New York .
glad to meet you .
well , the topic be interesting , but they have be have this one for three day .
I do not know why they be so obsess with it .
Mohammed seem like it be a weekend , or they want to get as much as they can feedback from people .
Jean I guess so , yes .
Mohammed and so what do you think be - Jean I I do not actually -- watch the trial very much , uh th - in fact , I do not watch the trial at all .
Mohammed Mhm .
Jean I read about it in the newspaper and thing like that .
um , I do think from all the , uh , thing that I have hear that he -- have to be guilty with all the evidence that they have , but um , I do not really know why , uh , if everybody be so , sort of , obsess about it when we have get so much other -- thing go on in the world that , uh , seem to I much more important , but um .
perhaps it be because he seem , uh , a very human kind of person and , and you cou - you could not really understand why he would want to do something about that .
I - I think he motive must have be to be with he new girlfriend , but uh - -- kill he own first child that way be extraordinary .
what do you think ?
Mohamed ?
Mohammed yeah .
Jean and what do you - what do you think about it ?
Mohammed be very frankly , I be not , uh , follow the case at all even uh uh television , or uh read , but from what I can observe , that it seem , eh , it have be talk -- -- take too long time .
like one year almost , now .
it be - Jean when you what ?
Mohammed it be -- take so much time .
long time .
Jean Yes .
Mohammed the case be almost one year .
like last , uh , Christmas if I be not , uh , recall my memory .
so for one year , it be really a good time .
hu - so I be ask myself why it take such a long Jean Hm .
Mohammed it may be because -- it be quite important , or so there be so many everything 's , I mean , it be , it be a really different case .
but , the quo - the nice quotient be about the media .
but the media have bias in this , Jean Yes .
Mohammed or not ?
I believe that media be a very good , uh , I mean , uh , way to give we all the opportunity to understand and see .
I mean without the media , you and I , how we will be know ?
Jean No , exactly .
do you think they be bias in in -- favor of he , or in favor Mohammed I - -- no , I do not think so .
Jean No , I do not think so either from what I hear .
Mohammed maybe -- sometimes in - in - in - in other issue they - they may be bias , but in this issue they be just -- cover what be happen , Jean Yes .
Mohammed and , uh , they give we the picture .
it be a camera -- to give you the view .
I do not think they be bias in this case here .
Jean Yes .
no .
Mohammed and , uh , what do you think will happen next ?
Jean Well , uh they be come up to the sentencing , and I hear yesterday or read in the newspaper or something that he brother -- I guess it be on the television .
in the news , he brother be appealing -- for they to to sentence he to -- to prison for life rather than the death penalty , because -- he say he be a very good listener and he care about people , and and he might be able to help a lot of people in prison .
I do not know whether that be true or not .
I know that he have do a lot of volunteer thing before , and that be the one thing that make I wonder there be any possible chance that it could have be somebody else who do it .
I think give such as I have hear , even though like you , I do not follow the case day by day or anything like that , I do not quite see how he could not be guilty if they have get so much that appear to point to he .
and what would be the motive for anybody try to -- to get he if it be not Mohammed yeah .
prompt 5 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 1 -rrb- controversial PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week .
do you think Arafat 's death will help or hurt the israeli-palestinian peace process ?
be Arafat a good leader ?
what do you think US policy should be toward Palestine now that Arafat have die ?
what , if anything , should the US do to be involve in the Middle East peace process ?
Gandhi Hi , good evening .
Marco Hi .
wha - I do not catch you name .
what be you name ?
Gandhi Gandhi from New York .
you ?
Marco Gindhi ?
Gandhi New York .
yeah .
Marco from New York .
Gandhi yeah .
Marco Uh , Marco from Illinois .
Gandhi okay , Mark .
uh , I think it be fresh topic for tonight .
Marco yeah , yeah .
good topic .
it be a good topic .
Gandhi so what do you think ?
Marco Well , um , I would - I would have to start - -- I would have to start , generally , in state - -- state what I think be the problem and -- - with the Middle East and what - for I , one of the major problem be the fact that -- the -- United States government give so much aid to the state of Israel .
in which , the state of Israel buy -- many expensive military weapon , ah , which be use to -- oppress and -- to kill a lot of Palestinians .
so , for I , that be -- the - that be essentially the root of the problem .
and , um , Yasser Arafat be kind of in a difficult position , because you have these , um , incredibly -- oppressed and in some way imprison , uh , Palestinians , and if -- Arafat have not , um , try to stand up -- and help they and - and fight for they rights , then -- m - they would not have respect Arafat , but then again , you know , he could not be too friendly with the West , um , and , um , and so he do the best he could , I think .
it be a difficult -- leadership role .
Gandhi Mhm .
Marco yeah .
um , what do - well , how about you ?
Gandhi I think , yeah , more or less , I c - I agree with what you say .
it be almost , this be my view as well .
and the question be , what next ?
I mean , some idea -- from israeli side , they be say -- he be a problem , and if he go , everything will be quite easy .
Marco yeah .
Gandhi Fine .
now he be not in anymore .
Marco yeah .
Gandhi so , let we wait and see .
Hope .
if he be a problem himself , hope - uh , the come one -- will be in a good -- position to negotiate with the other side , Israel , and then -- peace can be achieve .
Marco yeah .
Gandhi Uh , we have to wait and see , but , uh , it seem it be not easy .
Marco but , I , eh , I get the feeling that - -- it be almost - -- the peace process - we can not put it on -- the ro - or the - -- the whole responsibility of the pre - -- peace process can not be the leader of -- a - -- a group that be - -- I do not know , in my view , have -- not ver - not very many resource to fight - -- to fight this -- battle that -- they try to fight against -- a government that have take away a lot of they land , that , you know , do not allow they to really move around in they own country .
so , unless that -- stop , the , um , the leader of the Palestinians -- really can not do too much -- to further the peace process , because -- there be -- a lot of bad thing happen to the people -- of that -- leader .
Gandhi that be correct , as well .
Marco yeah , so it be - -- it be kind of , it be - -- it seem like the , um , the media , at least in the United States , be -- put all of this -- focus and responsibility on the leader of the Palestinians , as if it be Gandhi Marco Arafat 's fault that any of - -- any of the violence be cause .
so , it seem like a unfair treatment -- of - -- of , you know , the leader of -- the palestinian people .
um , yeah .
Gandhi Yes .
that be absolutely correct .
yeah .
Marco yeah .
hm .
Gandhi actually , it - it be a good topic to be choose , I mean , uh , because it be one of the fresh topic .
Marco yeah .
Gandhi how long have you be with the study ?
Marco Uh , this be probably my tenth or eleventh conversation .
Gandhi Tenth , eleven .
almost the same like I .
so , the other -- day , which one be quite interesting to you ?
Marco Um , well , there be be a couple where -- they have - they talk about the Cabinet -- for -- Bush , and Bush have be , um , you know , select new Cabinet member and -- all of the new member be people that I be - I do not really know very well .
so , there be be some topic where I be - I do not have very much information .
other topic -- you know , usually about the election that - -- that , um , I do have -- a lot of thing , um , to say .
yeah .
be you - be you , um , be you from the United States , or do you come from , uh - Gandhi I come from the area , I be from Egypt .
Marco you be from Egypt .
Gandhi yeah , so I be - I be quite , uh , Marco so you - Gandhi - cern about , uh - -- uh , over there I mean .
people , actually , they be wait -- to , uh , to see peace be a fact .
actually , in both side , Marco yeah .
prompt 5 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 1 -rrb- controversial PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week .
do you think Arafat 's death will help or hurt the israeli-palestinian peace process ?
be Arafat a good leader ?
what do you think US policy should be toward Palestine now that Arafat have die ?
what , if anything , should the US do to be involve in the Middle East peace process ?
Ben hello ?
sue Hi , my name be sue and I be from Iowa .
how be you do ?
Ben Hi , Sue .
I be Ben , I be from the Bronx , New York .
sue oh , east coast .
very nice .
Ben Yes .
pour rain here and cold .
sue oh , well , it be -- you should be get a little bit of a reprieve , because we be get a little more mild and -- we seem to get the little more mild weather right before you do , so Ben Well , that be good .
I w - I want a little .
sue it be come .
yeah , we even , uh , grilled out the last couple of day , so .
Ben oh , how nice .
sue yeah .
Ben who be - who be we ?
sue Uh , well , my husband and i. yeah .
Ben oh , how nice .
yeah , I be single , uh , have a - a boyfriend .
sue oh , you do ?
Ben yeah .
yeah .
sue well , good for you .
Ben and we be talk about Arafat here .
sue yes , Arafat .
let 's talk about Arafat .
what do you think ?
Ben Huh .
what do I think ?
um , well , when -- around the time he be he be get the Nobel Peace Prize and stuff , I think he get that .
sue yes , he do .
Ben Um , there be a show here in New York at a big theater .
I think maybe it be at Lincoln Center in the Philharmonic Theater or the Metropolitan Opera House or the New York State Theater or something .
and Arafat come in and get a standing ovation , you know , a peace prize winner bah bah bah bah bah .
the mayor of New York , who be then Rudolph Giuliani , stand up and walk out , he be also in attendance , and he , uh , comment to the press afterwards be that , you know , he just do not want to honor a terrorist , and I -- one of the few thing that I be happy about with Giuliani when he be mayor .
sue Mhm .
Ben Uh , Giuliani get very popular later because of the - the sue nine eleven .
Ben World Trade Center thing but he - he be not so popular as a mayor .
sue yeah .
right , I know that .
Ben but , you know , I - I kind of agree with that Arafat thing , though .
I -- but I do think he accomplish something in that the palestinian people do have a legitimate grievance and he put it on the map , you know .
sue well , he - -- he do but I think he really fail miserably , in my opinion , when he , um , refuse to sign that treaty that be originally set up because it be a wonderful -- option and it really could have re - do some wonderful thing for he people and I think he really do they a disservice by not take care of it at that time .
Ben Uh-huh .
uh-huh .
yeah , what be the treaty ?
I be not familiar with it .
sue well , um , where they be go to , uh , give they , like , ninety-six percent of the Ga - of - of Gaza and he say that he want all hundred percent .
and so he refuse to sign it .
it be just a - a incredible faux pas on he part , from my opinion .
Ben oh .
yeah .
yeah , y - it be - it be -- you have to sometimes take a little bit less than you want , you know , uh , a - and ninety-six percent be a big percentage , you know .
sue yes .
and I think that could have really do some wonderful uh step for -- uh for the palestinian people uh as a whole .
and I feel -- very sad that , um , that that be not -- do .
it really should have be .
um , it be really quite unfortunate that - that he -- that he be not willing to , um , step forward -- to do - do what be really in the best interest of he people .
Ben sometimes - sometimes I th - I think it be hard when - when you be the - the first leader , or the George Washington of something , to see thing other than in black and white .
you know , or maybe he do not have the gift of - of nuance that would have help he to - -- to take that right step , uh , you know , the - -- the -- he people suffer so terribly and maybe , you know , it could have be better if he have sign that , huh .
sue I really think so .
I really , truly do and now it be a - a situation where , with he passing , um , I think there be a real , um , new opening , a new possibility for - -- some extremely positive step to come forward out of this -- I do think that the United States -- will probably be request to be involve in the negotiation process and I understand that , I I - uh , because , um , I think -- both side -- have a trust in the United States that make it - Ben and we have ha - we have a history , uh , Clinton and Carter w - work over there -- - try to get some peace go .
they they they work very personally .
they have those retreat and thing with the leader , sue right .
Ben arm-twisting session .
and stuff , and uh -- that be why we should be there but I be I be kind of scared of the people -- that represent the United States now , you know .
they be not quite the same caliber .
sue well , that be really true , um , but it - it be a -- I mean , we be have a - a -- step forward in a lot of way , um .
we - we , I think , do have some potential , um , to do some extremely positive , um , um , thing .
prompt 5 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 1 -rrb- controversial PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week .
do you think Arafat 's death will help or hurt the israeli-palestinian peace process ?
be Arafat a good leader ?
what do you think US policy should be toward Palestine now that Arafat have die ?
what , if anything , should the US do to be involve in the Middle East peace process ?
Rainia hello .
Paul Hi , this be Paul .
rainia hi .
where be you from ?
Paul I be in Delaware .
Rainia Delaware .
and my name be Rainia and I be in Eureka , California .
Paul wow .
opposite side of the coast .
Rainia yeah .
well , that be a interesting question they be ask .
Paul yeah , it be , uh , the past couple of topic have be -- more controversial than -- the early topic -- and , uh , well , I be - I be very opinionate .
I be happy to talk about it .
Rainia yeah , go right ahead .
Paul Well , um , Yasser Arafat be -- be he a good leader ?
I I think -- that , uh , he -- he be -- pretty much -- -- or he be pretty much -- follow what he have always do , even as a young man , uh , back in Algeria -- when - when he lead the -- terrorist attack against the french to kick they out of -- Algeria .
and I - I think he be do the same thing there in Palestine .
I - I do not think , eh , I do not think he really know how to , uh , take on the role of - of peacemaker .
you know , I be - I be -- you know , I could be wrong .
that be just my opinion .
but i - it seem like that - that be always a problem for he .
hm .
Rainia yeah .
um , I be not sure myself uh how good a leader he be .
I I -- it be hard to get the truth w - when the -- when the there be so many uh slant uh -- information Paul yeah .
rainia especially on the main media .
Paul that be true .
rainia I do not -- like the way -- Israel have be -- go after the Palestinians Paul Right .
I - I agree .
I think Ariel Sharon be a lot like Yasser Arafat .
and I -- can not understand why the two of they -- do not see the similarity .
Rainia yeah .
um , and they be ask -- too , of -- about the , should the ~ US be involve -- in that whole thing ?
Paul yeah .
that - that be interesting , too , because -- cut Yasser Arafat out of the whole thing be - -- be really -- George Bush 's decision .
I think -- personally , he do not like he because he think he be a - -- a liar -- so he refuse to -- have anything to do with he .
and , uh , th - rainia uh , which - which Bush be you talk about ?
Paul George ~ W Bush .
Rainia oh , ok - yeah .
Paul -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- Rainia Well - Paul Ev - everything kind of stop when - -- when he become president and all , uh , activity regard -- Israel , Palestine stop .
and Israel pretty much could do what they want .
a - and you be right , it do not seem fair at all .
Rainia yeah , there be -- th - well , the way I see it , eh , Bush , eh , have a right -- wing Christian , right-wing agenda .
he he be -- some -- how think that -- if Israel have -- -- I be not sure that all -- they prophecy be -- but there be something about -- if -- they can -- get rid of the Palestinians , that will somehow , um , they prophecy -- come true and th - and then -- somehow -- I do not -- I - we do not -- understand what on Earth they be Paul that sound -- rainia try to achieve with this but i - it seem like a - Paul that sound kind of scary .
Rainia a Christian agenda , yeah , that that -- that , uh , the end of the world , the end time -- if , um , Israel take over -- Palestine that be h - some -- have something to do with the end time .
it be really -- frightening the way they talk -- and , um , I do not think he be qualify to be involve in this at all .
it never be right to begin with n - and , you know , we - we be - we be only give certain information and Paul Mhm .
Rainia hard to really know the whole -- real story of what be go on over there .
but I do know Paul Right .
rainia that what the Israelis be do be wrong .
by go into they territory and build these wall or build settlement -- push the Palestinians out and -- Palestinians -- fight -- with rock and -- stick and -- Israelis have they machine gun and bulldozer and -- I just -- t - really unpalatable that the -- whole idea , the -- the way they be go about -- this thing and -- I do not really feel qualify -- to say how it should be , but -- I -- see it -- be wrong to -- hurt child and -- innocent people .
no matter what side they be on Paul Right .
prompt 5 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 1 -rrb- controversial PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week .
do you think Arafat 's death will help or hurt the israeli-palestinian peace process ?
be Arafat a good leader ?
what do you think US policy should be toward Palestine now that Arafat have die ?
what , if anything , should the US do to be involve in the Middle East peace process ?
Barb I be Barb from Indiana .
Roger okay , I be Roger from , um , Atlanta .
Barb Hi .
so , what do you think about -- Arafat ?
be he a h - Roger Uh , I think that , um , I bet he be not a really good leader .
I think that , um , that he situation -- -- well , see I get to the -- to - to the level of power that he be in -- back in the eighty -- and once he , um , you know , start get wealthy and start get known , that he agenda ch - uh , change Barb Mhm .
Roger but it be not actually for peace but be to try to find a way to -lrb- -lrb- send -rrb- -rrb- the Israelis out of Jerusalem in the area that they want .
I really do not think that -- they want to coexist .
I think that , um , he want -- you know , all he people -- all he people want to coexist with the -- Israelis .
I think that , um , he death -- mark a beginning of try to find somebody that -- really want peace .
I do not think that in that area of the , um , world that you could actually have peace .
if you know the Bible well you would know that there be always go to be a conflict there .
um , I think that , uh , the United States should open up -- they -- door to -- not help , but support any , um , process for peace in the area , though .
I do not think that we should get involve to a level , a point where we be send people over there and , um , try to -- help keep the peace or anything like that , um .
there be a lot of stuff that can be do -- by just verbal suppo - -- you know .
I think that now he be go , he family be still around , and Barb yeah .
Roger uh , million and million of dollar that he have be still around but they -- if they bring people in that be not involve with he cabinet , n - um , have different view than he , somebody that gener - genuinely can accept the fact that the Israel - -- be - Israelis be there and they be there to stay -- and , um , we go to have to find a way to coexist .
if they can find somebody like that , then I think that they should f - support he and , um , and back he up -- in try to help define -- peace in the area where peace be impossible .
what do you think about it ?
Barb I agree with you .
I do not know that much about it , I be not much into politics back in the eighty .
I be more , um , kind of a -- I be a kid on the run from abusive parent back then so that be not a , you know , one of my topic of interest at the time , it be now .
um , I -- my roommate , and I still do not know that much about -- I would love to know more about politics and I be try to learn more , uh , tell I , you know , he be such a terrible man but , eh , I do not listen to everything he say .
and I think it -- -- I mean , it would be nice to have peace over there , but I agree with you , I do not think it be ever go to happen .
I mean , not the way -- -- not the way they will -- -- not like it be here .
and I agree that we should not send people over there .
we have get enough stuff go on with Roger yeah .
Barb Iraq and I - and , um , the -- other -- -- the other guy .
Roger yeah .
Barb we get way too much go and too much expense , I mean , we we can not , the that be Roger yeah .
Barb that would be just put it over the edge right there .
but I think ought support , you know , a man that , Roger Mhm .
Barb like you say , be -- would like to coexist -- with everybody and somebody that be Roger yeah .
Barb peaceful -- and , I do not know , I would like to learn more about the Bible .
my parent never take I to church or anything .
but , um , Roger yeah .
Barb I would like to -- I know that , you know , there be be problem , a lot of conflict over there , and it seem like no matter what , Roger ah .
Barb just like Iraq ye - eh , we try to go in and get peace and - and how long have it be and , I mean , I think Saddam need to be remove but it be - -- there be just -- s - all these people that be go to follow he no matter what .
Roger yeah , and , um , I only know about Yasser Arafat because I , um , study international affair a little bit -- and I know -- a very little bit about he because , of course he be a , um , leader for a long time , longer than the age that I be -- old , so , but I - I - I - I have notice -- on throughout my study that -- what he represent to the public -- be -- what he represent to the international public -- be not what he be represent to he people -- and he be represent , um , peace with the Israelis and he be represent try to find -lrb- -lrb- the whites or -rrb- -rrb- divide the land so that it would be , um , stop , um , uh , war and terrorist in the area .
but I do not think that he have the same image to - to he people .
I think that it be a front -- for he to allow to to be accept in a international community , but I think -- that he ultimate plan and goal be to to run the Israelis out -- maybe closer to the Gaza strip , and to re-take Jerusalem -- and other city near Jerusalem , and to , uh , uplift he people in a way that -- they could say , you know , we conquer the Israelis .
it be a matter of , uh -- I mean , it be more than just land , it be a , um , conflict of - -- of , um , hatred , uh , and racism , I mean , eh , different type of people , um , they do not like each other , Barb yeah .
prompt 5 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 1 -rrb- controversial PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week .
do you think Arafat 's death will help or hurt the israeli-palestinian peace process ?
be Arafat a good leader ?
what do you think US policy should be toward Palestine now that Arafat have die ?
what , if anything , should the US do to be involve in the Middle East peace process ?
Ali Hi .
Mark I - -- my name be Mark .
Ali my name be Ali , uh , Mark how you d - Ali from Pennsylvania .
Mark how you do ?
Ali I be fine .
how be you ?
Mark Good , good .
not too bad .
Ali Uh , so let I ask you , do you think Arafat be , uh , a good leader or not ?
Mark Um , to hi - -- yeah , I - -- I think he do what he think -- be right for he people .
I - I - -- I would say he be a good leader -- for - -- for , uh , he people .
and as far as we involvement there , should be as little as possible .
just let they do -- what they , you know , what they be go to do -- and we should stay out of it -lrb- -lrb- just -rrb- -rrb- as -- much as we can .
uh , this country seem to get involve too much in other people 's politics .
should just let they do whatever they be go to do , Ali Uh , Mark you know .
Ali mm , by the way I be from Arab origin , so I also have , uh , uh , the same opinion -- like you .
I believe he -- -- in my opinion he - he be a good leader -- and , um , I believe what , eh , have to be do -- right now be to -lrb- -lrb- apply -rrb- -rrb- -- the United Nations ' , uh , decision about the conflict between Arab and Israel because there be -- -- there be a lot of , uh , decision have be make -- have be make -- and this , uh - for example , one of they be , uh , decision number two forty-two -- and this be about -- the ha - establish two - two country , one for Israel and another one for Palestine .
Mark Right .
Ali so , if we -- -- eh , if United States , Bush , Israel -lrb- -lrb- tell -rrb- -rrb- th - the solution or to , uh , to make the decision , eh , I think this will solve -- the problem .
the -- unfortunately what happen right now - -- the -- for example , which be -- little bit toward it be - it be interest .
for example , when there be , uh , like , a -- decision against Iraq , the United States -- go directly -- to Iraq to -- -- for , eh , uh , a invasion -- and -- for -- whatever reason - -- she even be out , uh , put any attention to the United Nations , uh , like , uh , approval .
she do wha - what she want .
but , eh , eh , for israeli , palestinian conflict there be a lot of decision that have to be -- apply but until now -- she do not put any pressure , eh , toward -lrb- -lrb- this and -rrb- -rrb- and I believe this policy have be , uh , this kind of policy , eh , um , eh , become more and more during -- eh , during , uh , eh , Bush -- -- President Bush time .
for example , before , eh , during Clinton , I believe at that time -- Clinton be try hard -- to solve this problem and I believe at that time , if you remember , um , Yasser Arafat -- and , uh , the prime minister of Israel , he name be Barak , they meet together in the White House -- and -- they almost come to a agreement -- to solve this problem -- and during Clinton , eh , period -- they have , uh , this -lrb- -lrb- Oslo -rrb- -rrb- a - eh , agreement .
most of the big problem between the two party , they negotiate everything almost and there be -- there be , like , final step that have to be solve .
but , uh , I think if there be , like , the , um , the same policy have to be follow after Clinton .
I think -- everything would - -- - finish then - -- the -- I think United States -- go to another direction and , eh , they forget about this problem right now .
Mark yeah , I g - eh , see , I do not , Ali Mark um , when - when policy be set by one -- -- by one president -- towards - towards one thing , it be usually -- follow through , if there be something to follow through , by the -- next president in turn .
he be more or less obligate -- to continue , uh , the process that be already start -- but -- I think -- Bush 's -- agenda -- be not -- towards that right now .
that be not he priority , I do not think .
Ali yeah , I think so , yes .
Mark and , eh , uh , although , you know , it be be a long time -- that -- i - they have both -- b - both Israel and Palestine , they both need a -- they both need they own country -- and - Ali that be , uh , true because , uh , Mark a - -- eh , y - Ali in the United Nations they have establish -- eh , they make this decision already .
Mark r - right , right .
Ali the -- uh , there , uh -- there have to be two country , one of they for Palestine , Mark Right .
Ali and another one for israeli but , uh , Mark I - I - I agree a hundred percent , uh , Ali because , eh , i - Mark eh , but to get so involve in it .
I think , the people , uh , the people that be in charge , the - eh , the people that run the government there -- do need to sit down a - and - and be in touch with each other and if they need a mediator or something like that , that - Ali which be play by u - United States .
this be the mediator which , in my opinion , be the one Mark r - Ali who have the power to convince both -- party -- about - Mark Right .
right .
um , i - -- they -- in -- Ali Mark it be a -- -- eh , that i - -- that be what be need and un - Ali Mark unfortunately they have be -- they have be try to get this settle and hash out for -- twenty-five , thirty year now .
Ali yeah .
Mark Uh , Ali yeah .
Mark i - it be be a long time in come and anything that be good be worth wait for , you know what I mean ?
eh , I mean , that be what I have always be tell .
and -- but -
prompt 6 .
Criminal Trials/Peterson Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
there be be a lot of media coverage of the Peterson trial .
why do you think this trial have be so publicize ?
what other criminal trial have get a lot of media attention , and why ?
what be the most memorable criminal trial you can recall ?
Paul hello ?
Ken Hi , I be Ken .
how be you ?
Paul I be Paul , I be from Delaware and I be do okay .
Ken I -- I be call you from New York City , Paul , it be a pleasure to meet you .
Paul Nice to meet you , too .
Ken thank you .
have yo - how so , how do you feel about this Scott Peterson trial and all the publicity they be put into it , and Paul Well , I -- I think it -- get so much publicity because this -- this guy come out and -- claim he wife be miss Ken Right .
Paul and then , uh , he double life come come into view , and I I think that be Ken Right .
Paul kind of fascinating , Ken Uh , with the with the girlfriend ?
Paul for -- yeah .
Ken okay .
Paul for a lot of folk .
Ken okay , I guess I can agree with that , also , um , yeah .
Paul I mean , he be he be not really a celebrity like ~ oj be , or Ken yeah , well , I that be what I be g - my next question be , that be another big criminal criminal , uh , trial , Paul or -- yeah .
Ken you know , and they -- that go on for month and month and month and then , I guess the next one that we will be get be the Michael Jackson thing .
Paul yeah , Michael Jackson and and Robert Blake , Ken yeah , Robert Blake , Robert Blake .
Paul and , uh Ken he be out right now , be not he , or be still in jail ?
Paul I be I be not sure .
Ken Well , huh , eh , eh , I think , uh , one of those guy Columbo , Columbo , that be Robert Blake , right ?
Paul Uh , Baretta .
Ken oh , that be Baretta .
he be he be in jail .
Paul Baretta .
yeah .
Ken I do not know .
these guy , I do not know .
Paul Robert Blake do not seem like he be all there .
Ken yeah , well .
Paul I I do not know what be go to happen in that one .
Ken but he need that parakeet with he or something .
remember the parakeet in the show ?
yeah , I Paul that be right .
I forget about that .
yeah .
Ken uh , Gilligan 's island , all this good stuff .
Paul Right .
-lrb- -lrb- right . -rrb- -rrb-
-- yeah .
Ken I mean , it be great stuff .
Paul Baretta .
they -- Baretta have a really good theme song , too .
Ken yeah , yeah .
yeah , I like that song .
I like that song , yeah .
but with this Peterson guy -- he look so cool and reserved but , uh , it be like nothing 's phase he , and Paul I know .
even when they Ken do you think he do it ?
Paul when they read the verdict he he do not even flinch , do not even blink .
Ken No .
uh , do you think he do it ?
Paul I go , wow , that be kind of weird .
Ken yeah .
Paul Well , i - it make I think that he probably do it .
Ken Eh , he , eh , w - it seem like he cover he track , though , I mean , they have no evidence other than the body that they find .
Paul yeah .
Ken so , it be crazy , but , they be say where they be go to put he th eh , in the same prison next to Charles Manson or something like that .
that be , like , really crazy .
yeah , so they can be buddy or something , I do not know .
Paul -lrb- -lrb- but -rrb- -rrb- Ken but I do not think he be go to last in jail if he go to jail , I mean .
they talk abou - -- how do you feel about this death penalty thing ?
Paul Well , jeez , I I do not know .
Ken Eh , I mean , I do not thin - I mean , I I I do not think that he should suffer that , you know , I think he should , um , I do not think that he should suffer that .
Paul yeah .
well , if if he do live and he be in prison , Ken Mhm .
Paul he will probably get some wacky woman -- who want to marry he , Ken oh yeah .
oh yeah .
yeah , that Paul get marry two or three time in there .
Ken yeah , that remind I of the Central Park , uh , guy Robert Chambers in New York City .
now , Paul yeah .
Ken they have -- I be surprised they have not make a big , big -- thing out of it , eh , he just get bust last week for some -- something .
and , um , I think he be - m - be meet woman in the jail like that , too , when he be there , but he just get out of do fifteen year and , you know , he be just , eh , Central Park , he have , uh , well , rough sex or something , with a woman in the park and they say he strangle she , or Paul oh , sure , the preppy guy .
Ken yeah , the preppy guy , yeah .
they catch he last weekend do something , but , uh , he drive without a license or whatever .
Paul yeah , just always always in trouble now .
prompt 6 .
Criminal Trials/Peterson Scott Peterson have be find guilty of murder he wife Laci and they unborn son , and he now face the death penalty .
there be be a lot of media coverage of the Peterson trial .
why do you think this trial have be so publicize ?
what other criminal trial have get a lot of media attention , and why ?
what be the most memorable criminal trial you can recall ?
Winnette Hi , this be Winnette , in Michigan .
Irvin Hi this be Irvin , Sullivan , Illinois .
what be you name again ?
Winnette Winnette .
with a ~ W. Irvin ~ WYNETT ?
Winnette ~ INNETTE .
Irvin ~ WI -- okay .
okay .
you be in Michigan , huh ?
Winnette yeah ?
Irvin All right .
uh , what do you know about this Scott -- Peterson trial ?
I do not know much about it , to be honest with you .
Winnette oh this be funny because I just , one of my call the other day be regard this .
Irvin really ?
Winnette so uh uh they be act - -- actually that be get a few different question and -- actually the gentleman I get the other day -- have not even hear about it .
Um , Irvin oh really ?
Winnette Well um , I have be follow it pretty closely .
um , I guess because of -- you know it be a mother and -- be pregnant for a baby .
Irvin oh , uh-huh .
Winnette Um , kind of hit more to -- I you know to home .
um , so you -- how much of it have you follow ?
do , do you -- follow any of it at all when it be on in the news or in the papers or anything ?
Irvin hardly any of it at all , because -- um -- for one thing -- I do not have a ~ tv or a radio and I do not get a daily newspaper .
we get Winnette oh wow .
Irvin we get a weekly newspaper .
Winnette okay .
Um , well I will I do not get any newspaper at the house , but -- I listen to the radio every morning on my way to work and Irvin oh yeah ?
Winnette and uh -- when it first happen it be -- pretty publicize on every radio station um -- it come across -- on the news and we keep we ~ tv on at my work , because we have a customer wait area , so irvin oh , uh-huh .
Winnette um actually one of we employee have wa - watch -lrb- -lrb- happen -rrb- -rrb- -- so from that point on we kind of -- talk a lot about it at work and Irvin how long ago be it ?
Winnette different thing .
um , it be a year -- almost a year ago .
over a year ago ?
because it be just before Christmas -- that it happen .
Irvin over a year ago .
Winnette yeah .
um , I be think -- I do not know , November , December , I be not sure exactly .
but I know it be just before Christmas -- when they have uh -- it have happen , because she be miss during Christmas and then they have find she body .
and they -- they find the baby as well .
Irvin terrible .
Winnette Um , so when they find the baby , the baby of course have be -- they do not know if the baby be bear , through delivery , or -- if maybe from um -- the corpse I guess Irvin so the baby be separate .
Winnette maybe extract it .
um , actually she be pregnant for the baby .
Irvin but the baby be separate from the body when he find it ?
Winnette Yes .
Yep .
um , I do not know if ma - I you know I do not know the whole story for sure , but -- um -- he have -- you know , obviously -- deny that he be involve anything to do with it .
then they find out that he be have a affair on she .
and -- then of course when they be investigate he -- he try run .
dye he hair and -- grow out a mustache and -- they catch he try to run with -- quite a bit of cash .
Irvin wow .
Winnette so I mean , Irvin -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- Winnette he be -- in all honesty be guilty all along the way but Irvin Uh-huh .
Winnette of course you know they have get to give he that reasonable doubt .
Irvin Uh-huh .
so be he be he still um -- in prison now ?
Winnette yeah .
and they be make the determination if -- in fact he will get the death penalty , or life in prison .
so that be what be be up in the air right now .
Irvin what state be this in ?
Winnette California .
Irvin it be in California .
Winnette and -- um -- I know I have , it be suppose to have be deliberate on -- the twenty-second of November , but they have a issue happen with -- one of the juror -- so it be postpone everything .
but , actually they be try to pass a law , and I do not know if it ever do take into effect , that if in fact a mother be kill , and pregnant , um -- for there to be a double murder charge .
Irvin oh , uh-huh .
Winnette and -- they be in fact try to enforce the death penalty on that charge if they be -- find guilty on both charge .
Irvin Uh-huh .
Winnette and -- so it be kind of up in the air now -- because he -- I believe he get first degree murder and -- um and then get manslaughter on the baby .
so he do not get both first degree murder .
Irvin what be the difference ?
Winnette where -- um , I guess because he do not murder the baby directly .
Irvin oh .
Winnette I be think maybe be the difference .
and because of the the charge on the baby , they could not automatically give he the death penalty , but -- obviously there be enough -- um , complaint or whatever Irvin what be he excuse for do something horrible like that ?
Winnette and -- well he still deny everything .
he have never admit Irvin -lrb- -lrb- still do -rrb- -rrb- Winnette to do it .
um -- but the only thing they can figure be that maybe -- he want back into the bachelor life , and do not want to be a father , do not want to be tie down with a wife and child Irvin so he do not have any other child ?
Winnette that be -- no , that be go to be they first .
and actually I do not even think they be marry that long , maybe a year or two .
prompt 9 .
election do you vote in the recent US presidential election ?
what do you think of the two candidate , George Bush and John Kerry ?
what about the Vice Presidential candidate , Dick Cheney and John Edwards ?
what issue be most important to you in decide who to vote for ?
if you do not vote , why not ?
Lynn Hi , my name be Lynn .
Dave Hi , my name 's Dave .
Lynn oh , how be you ?
Dave Pretty good .
Lynn oh , so the topic be election .
Dave Right .
Lynn Um , I do vote Dave I do also .
Lynn and I vote for , uh , not Bush .
Dave Well , I guess , uh , you vote for Kerry then , right .
Lynn Yes , I do .
Dave yeah , be you in a blue or a red state ?
Lynn I be sorry ?
Dave A blue or a red state ?
Lynn I be from Missouri -- I be in Missouri .
Dave Missouri .
Lynn Mhm .
Dave I forget which be which .
Lynn Well I b - really do not even look at it like that , but I should know that , should not I ?
Dave yeah , I be in Indiana -- so , uh , Lynn and we be kind of split in the middle I think so I do not know .
maybe we be half blue and half red .
Dave yeah .
Lynn so , you vote for Bush , then ?
Dave No , I I vote for Kerry .
Lynn oh , you do , too .
oh , okay .
Dave but , uh , I live in a kind of a staunchly -- republican state .
so , there be really no way for my vote to make a difference .
Lynn which , you know , I I just think the electoral vote -- I do not know what be wrong with everybody just take , you know , a head count and voting Dave yeah .
Lynn and do away with the * electorial .
Dave Well , you know , you be you be talk about , um , the Constitution there , so , I mean , you know , it take a lot to change the Constitution .
I know they be also -- I have be read some article lately about they be -- think about , uh , uh , why should only a native bear person be allow to , uh , be President .
Lynn oh , I know .
that be kind of interesting to -- think that , I mean , I think it will be a long time before -- they would change that .
Dave yeah , but , uh , just in the last uh , well , actually just in the last month or so I -- be really the only time I have ever hear anybody even even talk about it .
and , uh , well , I I -- I do read a a column today by , uh , a hispanic fellow and , uh , he be not native bear , he be from Cuba , and , uh , he state that , uh , we he be in the fifth grade and and , uh , uh , he be take -- no , I guess he be in middle school and he be take a civic class and and it be point out to he that , you know , he could never become President .
and he state at that time , you know , he say , well , okay I can not be President I will never , you know , get involve in politics .
so , you know , he kind of thought that be unfair .
Lynn Well , you know , in one sense it be but then , I mean -- well , my grandparent come over , Ellis Island and everything , but when I think about , you know , a foreign person or maybe bear in another country and come here it doe - it do not seem right in one sense for -- for they to be able to be President of this country .
Dave Right .
Lynn but -- it kind of fall like -- I mean I have be on the internet lately and I have run across these really weird website -- and I be not a fanatic or anything but they be all about the -- the new world , one world government and thing like that , you know , and to I it be just another point in that direction .
maybe eventually , you know , Dave Uh-huh .
Lynn that will not make a you know , twenty or thirty , forty , fifty year down the road .
Dave Right , eh , so what do you think about George Bush ?
eh , be Lynn I I think he be a phony .
I mean , that be another thing they be talk about that he be with the skull and bone from I think he go to Yale , Dave Right .
Lynn and so be he father and and Clinton be , too , and and people actually that + alumina Dave and Kerry be a skull and bone , also .
Lynn also , yeah , and then they -- I do not know what else they be call but they be say , like , they be like Satan people , Satan worshiper and , Dave oh .
Lynn you know , and you do not know what to believe .
I watch a show on channel nine about Bush and he be religious , spiritual , of course , but also religious when he father be not , and -- I do not know .
you know , you hea - I I think it be all a bunch of lie , and -- I I do not I be not crazy about Bush .
there be some thing about he , you know , the fact that he do act spiritual and thing like that , I like that , I think that be what get he in office but , Dave Uh-huh .
Lynn um Dave Well what do you think of he as a man ?
do you think he be , uh , a good man or do you think he be get -- any good quality , or Lynn Uh , I -- you know , I want to say that he probably be but then I look at the thing like where he want -- the thing he be do .
I think that people be poorer .
I mean , I just think the um , we be so much more in debt .
I just do not think he -- -- but as far as the man himself , I again , I do not know .
Dave yeah .
Lynn what do you think of he ?
Dave Well , I I think I think he dad be a better man than he be .
you know , to I , you know , I be kind of in the same boat you be in .
I think he be just he be kind of the sizzle , you know , he be not the steak .
I think he be just sell to the american people .
prompt 9 .
election do you vote in the recent US presidential election ?
what do you think of the two candidate , George Bush and John Kerry ?
what about the Vice Presidential candidate , Dick Cheney and John Edwards ?
what issue be most important to you in decide who to vote for ?
if you do not vote , why not ?
Obo hello , my my name be Obo in Ithaca , New York Ted Hi , my na - -- hey , my name be Ted and I be in Jacksonville , Florida .
Obo oh , nice , sound like it be a lot warmer down there .
Ted oh yeah , sun 's shine , it be a beautiful day .
Obo yeah , I guess the election , ah -- basically , who do you vote for , and the vice presidential candidate , and why , and I will be honest with you Ted yeah , go ahead .
obo i do not vote for either of those .
Ted oh okay .
obo i do vote , but I I do not vote for the main party Ted Uh-huh .
Obo ever , I usually try to stay out of the main party , because I think , and this last election show that both be very brutal .
Ted it be Obo Um , yeah I think that the , uh Ted election .
Obo oh , I be sorry .
Ted it be a very brutal election .
Obo yeah , yeah , it be , yeah , you be absolutely , yeah , and I be sorry , I mean , if you want to add anything I be sorry .
Ted No no , go ahead , go ahead .
Obo and , ah -- it be , it be just that -- like , I I just , I think that the last fifty year , the government have be mes - mess up by both these party , honestly .
even maybe before that .
so , I , I usually do third party -- um , and the way it be work this year be that the Democrats really push to get Ralph Nader off the ballot Ted yeah .
yeah they do .
Obo in every state , and um -- I mean , the Republicans sort of try to play like they be help he out , but they know they they do not really have to because they know the Democrats be already do more damage to keep he off the ballot and they be successful , and for a progressive party that be very brutal .
Ted Mhm , it be .
Obo and I be not really impress by either of the two vice presidential candidate , I know Dick Cheney seem to be run the show Ted you know ?
Obo and , ah -- I mean , and , and a lot of it have to do -- and then , I just do not know much , John Edwards seem nice , but he just , you know , he be just , he just get elect to the Senate , and , I be not really familiar too much with hi - I mean , I think it be great that he get into the vice presidential role , but -- again , it be the whole party that I be really not really I do not like they policy .
Ted Well , you kind of hit on some of my sentiment , um , I be a fifty-year - old black male , and this be my first election that I participate in .
and the reason be be that , ah , I be retire Air Force -- and before , ah , because I be in the military -- ah , do not do not really think that my vote , um , count one way or the other , that be that be my thinking .
you know , I have a role to fulfill and regardless of how I vote , uh , I be go to have to fulfill that role .
Um , Obo yeah .
Ted the , the situation , though , now that I be out and , in the civilian sector , um , I find that the economics as far as home -- be what I be most concern with .
and because of the economic situation , I do not think that be be address .
yes , I feel very , very bad in regard to the , ah , nine-eleven tragedy and terrorism and this kind of stuff Obo Mhm .
Ted um , but I think so much attention be be pay to that -- that -- as you mention , over the past fifty year , the two party that run the country -- um , have definitely take a , um -- streamlined approach to whatever they agenda may be and not the will of the people .
Obo you say it very well .
I totally , you coul - I could not have say it better .
Ted now it be uh -- and as time go on , you know , like , ah , what be we , you know , head for , what be we face with ?
Obo I I Ted I mean , if we do not start look inward and start take care of thing at home -- uh , right now , yeah , we be the biggest power in the world .
I hear a commentary by Rush Limbaugh , ah , the other day , and the comment be make be that there always be go to be a big dog on the street .
and right now I be proud to be , ah , you know , behind the big dog , mean the United States .
if i - if if -- the United States be not the big dog , some power in the world be go to step up and be just that .
we get so many crisis and tension uh what do you -- hot spot in the world , that , uh , instead of get better , it seem to be grow .
we get , uh , what be it , Iran ?
uh , right behind Iraq there .
and then North Korea , which be , you know , always volatile .
uh , you know , those situation be not get any better , you know ?
Obo you be absolutely right , yes .
Ted and as far as -- you know , I mean , what be we go to do ?
we can - we can not -- police the whole world .
we , we truly can not .
prompt 9 .
election do you vote in the recent US presidential election ?
what do you think of the two candidate , George Bush and John Kerry ?
what about the Vice Presidential candidate , Dick Cheney and John Edwards ?
what issue be most important to you in decide who to vote for ?
if you do not vote , why not ?
John John in Denver .
Ivan Hi , this be Ivan in Wisconsin .
John Ivan in Wisconsin ?
oh , I be -- I grow up in , uh , hour north of Milwaukee , like , eh , uh , West Bend , er , uh , Fort Washington area .
Ivan yeah , I be , uh , between Lake Geneva and Kenosha .
John oh , okay .
Ivan yeah .
John Cool .
um , man I think I , uh , put this whole election stuff behind I .
Ivan yeah , I - in fact , I think we already have a discussion on this , uh , about election some time back , but I guess it be -- question be frame differently , I guess .
John Uh-huh .
well , um , Ivan yeah .
John I do vote .
Ivan Mhm .
John and , um , election wear I down .
I be pretty tired of all that , you know , all the commercial and all the hype and -- I do not know .
it it we have lunch at work and -- the whole lunch time all you do be see commercial about the -- politician and , you know , all that kind of stuff , um , Ivan Mhm .
John yeah .
Ivan yeah , I , uh , I vote .
John Uh-huh .
Ivan Um , uh , and , uh , yeah , I -- feel the same way .
I get -- regardless of what year it be or who the candidate be I get tire of listen to it .
it -- basically all of it be the same thing all the time and , uh , John Uh-huh .
Ivan they , uh , tell you the same thing and then they turn around and -- do something different all the time anyway , so it be -- I do not know if it be , uh , I guess it be wor - -- worth voting , but -- sometimes I wonder .
John Right .
right .
be not , uh , Wisconsin be like a swing , er , uh , they be really pu - or no it be Ohio , I think , be the really , uh , Ivan yeah , Ohio be th - the big swing one .
it be John big upset .
right .
Ivan fairly close here , John it be , yeah .
Ivan uh , uh , it be , uh , it go , uh , what color be it ?
Blue I guess it be .
John Right .
Ivan and , uh , John my -- uh-huh .
Ivan yeah , go ahead .
John Well , my parent live back there still .
Ivan Uh-huh .
John In fact , we just get back from Disney World , you know , about a hour ago and they be down there and they be but they be both , uh , Ivan oh .
John one 's one and one 's the other Ivan Uh-huh .
John so they arg - you know , they just go and vote and cancel each other out , you know .
Ivan yeah , uh-huh .
yeah .
yeah .
John and , uh , kind of funny , so .
um , I do not know .
I guess we will just have to see what happen with , uh , Mr. Bush .
hopefully it be -- good choice , you know , Ivan Mhm .
John I do not know .
Ivan wow , you really - John I di - I do not have a lot of faith in any of they , really , Ivan nah .
John er , I mean , I -- I do not really know what be the perfect choice .
Ivan No , they be , ah , I can not ever remember a perfect choice and I have be vote since , uh , Nixon McGovern , uh , so John Right .
Ivan I , uh , I would - I have never -- ever see a perfect candidate .
John Right .
Ivan but that be John yeah .
Ivan th - that be to be expect , I mean , you know , they be all human being .
John can not please everybody .
Ivan yeah .
Yep .
and , uh , as far as what I think of the various candidate , uh , you know , I guess we -- say what we say about Bush , but , uh , Kerry , I do not know , it be just that -- - coast , uh , kind of persona or image , - t , uh , I -- do not care for , for one thing .
John Uh-huh .
Ivan from Massachusetts i - -- - candidate .
John Right .
Ivan and , uh , Cheney -- which he be kind of out you way , uh , Wyoming .
John Uh-huh .
Ivan Uh , uh , he be kind of a non-descript person , as far as , like I I be sure he be he be probably a nice guy , and -- a lot of fun at a party probably , I do not know , but , you know , just from -- what you see of he , he be just kind of -- kind of like a old grandpa , you know .
John yeah , he be real grouchy .
Ivan yeah , he just John in those debate he be like a pitbull .
Ivan yeah , yeah .
John you know , he would c - he and , uh , I mean , uh , I do not know , he he kind of pick apart Edwards Ivan Mhm .
John and , um , but then -- Edwards fight back kind of -- you know and then all the stuff you hear about Edwards too , about the , uh , how he be a trial lawyer and how he make all he million -- sue insurance company and , um , you know , there - there be -- bad stuff you hear about both of they that , you know , obviously they want to tell you Ivan yeah .
yeah .
John that I do not like .
and , I guess I do not really like that , uh , uh , Kerry be , like , change he story all the time , like , oh , I - -- I believe in this but , uh , no I do not but yes I do and , Ivan yeah .
John you know .
I be kind of a cut and dry kind of a guy .
Ivan yeah .
John if you get a opinion I would rather just want you to tell I straight up and not Ivan yeah .
John try to beat around the bush to -- get my vote or something like that .
Ivan yeah , yeah .
yeah , I guess to a certain degree they -- they , uh , I guess try to play to the middle and try to -- please as many people as they can but Kerry be just all over the map .
John Right .
prompt 9 .
election do you vote in the recent US presidential election ?
what do you think of the two candidate , George Bush and John Kerry ?
what about the Vice Presidential candidate , Dick Cheney and John Edwards ?
what issue be most important to you in decide who to vote for ?
if you do not vote , why not ?
Marco hello , it be Marco from Illinois .
Derek hello , this be Derek from Austin , Texas .
Marco oh .
Dan , do you say ?
Derek Derek .
Marco Derek .
Derek yeah .
Marco Hi , nice to meet you .
Derek yeah , you too .
Marco Um Derek how 's it go ?
Marco Good , good .
so , uh the election , um -- the , um -- let 's see , overall I feel -- ju - just give you a brief -- summary , I feel -- that -- John Kerry and Edwards be be pretty strong candidate and -- uh -- mm , I do not know , I guess just in term of policy I do not -- I do not , uh , find -- that as compelling as just -- the personality of -- the different candidate .
Derek yeah .
Marco feel like I could trust Kerry -- uh , little bit more even though he be much more of a politician than Bush .
Derek Mhm .
Mhm .
Marco Uh , he be -- kind of a smooth talker and Derek Mhm .
Marco Um -- uh -- seem like a politician , they way he present Derek Mhm .
Marco he you know he he um argument .
but -- uh -- strangely I feel like that what , that be -- one of -- one of he good quality because I do not feel Bush be politician enough .
that um -- one of the -- issue that I be concern about be just -- the representation of the United States and -- on the international stage Derek Sure .
Marco and I just -- uh -- I uh -- I do not know , uh , Bush be -- the way he present um -- the ~ US position -- uh -- seem a little -- abrasive to I .
Derek Mhm .
Marco and I -- feel like , hm -- if we be try to , um -- make -- um -- the United States safer and more stable -- conflict in the world more stable then we probably need somebody -- who be a little bit more -- of a politician in the sense that -- the , they care about diplomacy and -- uh , even though we may not -- give in to -- the will of the other nation present it in a nicer way .
Derek Mhm .
Marco yeah , it seem -lrb- -lrb- I make -rrb- -rrb- kind of simplistic , but -- that be -- a important thing for I .
Uh Derek yeah .
Marco yeah .
Derek Um -- I be a little different .
I I I agree with everything you say .
I just , um -- I come from a little different background as far as be -- I be never into politics and now I I actually have get into God much more and and , you know , search spirituality out .
Marco Uh huh .
Derek generally people like that be conservative , you know , Marco yeah .
Derek uh , with they view because of different thing like abortion and , and , uh , pro-life and -- all that kind of thing so I come form that background Marco Uh huh .
Derek eh , but that be just a add bonus for I in the fact that -- I too be obviously at this point in time concerned about the welfare of we security -- and I feel personally that if -- Kerry be in office we have kind of be , uh -- up a creek without a paddle because I think -- he be so lay back -- um , and not as aggressive as Bush that at this point in the game , where we be at -- we be in this thing full full -- steam ahead Marco Uh huh .
Derek and for a transition to occur at this point -- to someone who be lay back -- and not as aggressive as he I think would actually endanger the ~ US even more .
Marco yeah .
Derek I think that the international , uh uh , leader would look at Kerry and know , they be very smart , I mean they be -- they be on top of these thing , they know , you know , it would , it just would have open a gateway .
Marco Uh huh .
Derek I feel Marco yeah .
Derek that , uh , it may have actually put we in more danger .
at least Bush have -- pull out the gun , you know , stick to they , and um -- you know , that be where I be come from on that .
Marco yeah .
Derek and then when I Marco -lrb- -lrb- do you think -rrb- -rrb- Derek I listen to a lot of talk radio and when I hear the stuff about Kerry back in the -- the the , apparently the scandal he be pull as far as the uh , medal when he serve time .
Marco Uh huh .
Derek you know , uh -- I listen to a lot of talk radio and speak with , you know , hear from a lot of , uh -- veteran -- and they say it be physically , uh , impossible for he to achieve what he say he do .
Marco Uh huh .
Uh huh .
Derek and all the meeting he be miss , and just , you know , I think it be more of a status quo for he .
Marco yeah .
Derek I think he be more , he get so much money that I think he be just concern with attain this position and a title .
Marco yeah .
Derek you know -lrb- -lrb- flag -rrb- -rrb- for he , so Marco do you think , um -- the -- when the Republicans be campaigning -- they be say that well , another attack on the U.S. be -- imminent , that it probably -- probably go to happen -- and -- um -- and -- they even go so far to say that if -- it be really difficult to prevent something like this and of course they be do the best they can and -- I think Kerry would do the best he could .
but do you think , um -- that -- and this be not quite a political issue , but do you think that -- there be go to be another attack on the ~ US ?
uh like in the next five year ?
something big like -- the world -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- Derek I , I do not know what you belief be , as far as , uh -- biblically or spiritually or whatever , but -- I believe it be inevitable .
I mean , we be go down , you know ?
and , yeah , and this be , all these thing have be write about actually .
Marco really ?
Derek Um -- The tw - the uh -- what be it , the tower , uh -- that be actually uh there be reference to that in the bible .
Marco yeah , I have hear , I have hear about that .
prompt 10 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 2 -rrb- PLO leader PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week , after a lot of controversy surround he illness and death .
what do you think cause he illness , and could it have be something malicious -lrb- like poisoning -rrb- ?
what do you think of Israel 's policy surround Arafat 's illness and death ?
should President Bush or a senior US official have attend Arafat 's funeral ?
should Israel have let Arafat be bury in Jerusalem ?
Ed hello , this be Ed .
James Uh , Hi , yeah , this be James .
Ed hey , James .
James how you do ?
Ed Good .
James Well , what do you think ?
Ed I think I be on this one yesterday , same subject .
James I , I believe I have talk about this subject once before too .
Ed Uh , well , let 's see , my past view be , uh -- illness-wise , ah -- I do not think -- it help he , be in the compound .
James Right .
right .
Ed but , you be , you know , you be never go to know if there be any , ah , clandestine-type operation that -- aid he , ah -- ah , illness .
James Mhm .
Ed I think that they , ah , -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- , I do not think you be ever go to find out if there be any direct James Right .
Ed tamper James Right .
Ed but I do not , you know , from just the generic point , or general point of view , it do not help he illness once he get -- sick -- be in the compound , close in like that with the Arabs .
James Right .
right .
Ed and that James I do not -- I do not know if I think there be something -- you know , malicious do , because , you know , look back -- he be be have this shake thing go on Ed yeah .
James for quite some time .
and I agree that the surroundings could not have help .
Ed Right .
James yeah , it , it could have only exacerbated , uh , he situation .
because for -- for a good little while now I have notice , you know , that he lip would tremble , and Ed yeah .
James and , you know , it be like , um , uh , almost like he have , uh , what be that , Parkinson 's ?
Ed yeah .
James Uh , something like that , but , uh , I do not know what the exact condition be -- in that compound , but they could not have be could not have be , ah , conducive to someone of he age -- and of he health -- and as far as , as , ah , the United States send a senior ~ US official , I think they should have send someone -- I do not know how senior that person have to be .
but , uh , it could have be a gesture Ed Well they do -- they do send somebody , I think .
do not they go with a senior official , I have James to Ed do not think they be go to ask this question , but I James oh y - yeah , you be right , they do send someone .
Ed but it be not -- like , ah , be not Bush , I definitely would not send he , I do not think you want to have he in that part of the world right now .
James Right .
no .
no .
no , I do not think Ed regardless of what you think about he , he be , ah James yeah , I do not think he should have go -- as a matter of fact , I do not think any senior official should have go , I do not think -- Secretary of State Colin Powell should have go .
uh , whoever they send be , be good enough .
Ed yeah .
James yeah , be good enough , just to show -- the palestinian people -- that , uh you know , America do care somewhat -- that you have lose you leader .
but , uh , no , it would have be -- it would have be a wro - as a matter of fact , I think send Bush would have make it worse .
you know .
uh , because he be not like that much by the palestinian people .
so I , I do not think send he would have be -- would have be the right thing to do .
Ed No , I agree with that .
James yeah , I do not think it would have add anything to -- to the situation .
and possibly could have make it worse .
Ed yeah .
James yeah .
Ed as to -- he burial James Mhm .
Ed ah , not anymore , these be all , uh like these be all political response James Huh .
right .
Ed you know , there be no right answer , consider that that be not James Mhm .
Ed you know , they be still argue over -- that land , and be it , ah James yeah .
Ed who own it and respect , so I mean it be James Mhm .
I would say my overall opinion be that -- this conflict be way past that time .
Ed yeah , well , James you know , it be be go on for all these many -- what , Ed hundred .
James hundred of year -- and a lot of people have lose they life , and and a lot of kid have grow up and all they have ever know -- on both side israeli and palestinian , all they have ever know be war .
and it be just tiresome .
I mean , that be , that be my , my view , this thing have go so long -- like you say , about a piece of land .
and it be just , you know , they , they , they get to learn at some point -- that they be go to have to be able to get along .
or this be just go to keep go around , and around , and around , and , you know , the the -- the Palestinians will , will , will -- will -- will do something , then Israel will respond , and then back and forth -- and it be just like a never end circle .
Ed oh yeah .
James it be like a never end circle of violence and death and destruction .
and , like I say , I be personally just tire of it .
I think the world be just tire of it .
Ed oh yeah .
James you know .
and they need to try and , try and , I , I mean , I do not have the answer .
you know , I do not have all the answer .
I just know that it be just -- just a ongoing situation that be - there seem to be -- no end in sight .
Ed I agree .
prompt 10 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 2 -rrb- PLO leader PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week , after a lot of controversy surround he illness and death .
what do you think cause he illness , and could it have be something malicious -lrb- like poisoning -rrb- ?
what do you think of Israel 's policy surround Arafat 's illness and death ?
should President Bush or a senior US official have attend Arafat 's funeral ?
should Israel have let Arafat be bury in Jerusalem ?
Paul Hi , I be Paul .
I be in Delaware .
Mike Hi , this be Mike .
I be in California .
Paul Nice to meet you , Mike .
Mike yeah , nice to meet you .
Paul Uh , well , pretty complicate -- topic .
Mike yeah , interesting issue .
I do not know .
what do you think ?
you think it be poison ?
Paul Well -- -lrb- -lrb- smoosh -rrb- -rrb- no , I I hear that just a couple of day ago and -- I I kind of doubt it or at least I hope not .
I guess that be what it be .
Mike yeah , I do not think he be poison .
I think he be just fr - frail and I think he would be uh , he would be look frail and he be shaky .
Paul yeah .
Mike you know , he would be look h - like he be shake and , uh , seem frail .
for some time when I would see he in public , uh , Paul yeah , that be true .
Mike presentation -- so forth .
Paul Right .
Mike and I think it whatever it be , it get he , just catch up with he and and he reach the you know , the end of he time .
Paul yeah .
Mike so , that be about it on that , I guess .
Paul yeah .
well , I I guess now that that he be he be die -- it will be , uh , or it it should be a change for the ~ PLO Mike Well , yeah , it will be change .
I I do not know if it will move forward any better -- but , uh , this , uh , I have hear we administration think it will .
I think he be a block to the peace -- but I think it be not only he do , it be also the -- you know , the , uh , more , uh , drastic element of the ~ PLO that , uh , that , uh , would not allow he to pursue peace Paul Right .
Mike at any cost .
Paul Well , I be -- I be -- I do not know , uh .
he he seem like a guy who be much more comfortable -- be under siege than in negotiate peace settlement .
Mike Uh-huh .
Paul Um , I Mike yeah .
Paul maybe that Mike Well , you know , he be kind of damned if he do and damned if he do not .
Paul yeah .
well Mike you know , if he if he make peace he have faction of he own people that would have kill he -- and if he do not make peace , eh , then he be consider , you know , the the warmongering , uh , man who will not make peace , you know .
so , he , uh , he could not really win .
I do not think he could make peace .
I do not know if anyone else can , either .
Paul yeah , I guess that be the big question , if someone moderate take over and they reach a settlement , do that mean the ~ PLO will split ?
I mean that -- that could be just -- dangerous .
Mike yeah .
Paul I guess , uh , make peace with half of the Palestinians be better than nothing .
Mike one of the other question it ask we be , do we think we president and we , uh , you know , official should have attend he funeral .
Paul -lrb- -lrb- oh , I b - -rrb- -rrb- Mike what do you think about that ?
Paul yeah .
well , I I do not remember who they send , but they do send over some very -- low level state department person Mike oh , I see .
Paul and , uh , Mike I do not know that .
Paul I I -- I be kind of embarrassed about that .
Mike that we do or d - that we do not send we official .
Paul I mean -- we -- we do , but i - it be some -- it be a nobody , basically .
Mike so you be embarrassed because you think they should have send someone higher up ?
Paul yeah .
Mike oh , I see .
Paul I I -- I mean , for for the funeral ceremony in , uh , Egypt .
-lrb- -lrb- I mean -rrb- -rrb- Mike yeah , I think so , too .
I think they should have send someone higher up .
Paul and , uh , I I can understand that they would not want to send anybody Mike -lrb- -lrb- that he -rrb- -rrb- -- do not forget this be the this be the representative of a whole people , you know what I mean ?
Paul yeah .
Mike The past he be they main representative and , uh , just out of respect for the people we should have send someone I think .
Paul Hm .
bad bad or good .
yeah , I think it would have be a much more positive message .
Mike yeah .
Paul -lrb- -lrb- we realize that -rrb- -rrb- Mike I think it would have , uh , you know , be a -- a step toward , um , you know , gain the , uh , I do not know , the respect and and the , um , Paul Right .
yeah , I think that Mike uh , th - of the people that we be go to have to be work with to try to bring about a peace , you know .
Paul that -lrb- -lrb- yeah , -rrb- -rrb- it -- yeah .
Mike and , uh , it would have -- go a - a little farther to encourage they to , you know , be willing to sit down at the table with we , at least , you know .
Paul that be true .
Mike and , I mean not that it would have even be notice -- in that regard have he -- have have we president or someone higher go , but the fact that they do not , that be what be really go to be notice , you know what I mean ?
Paul yeah .
well , uh , you know , Colin Powell be a -- pretty moderate guy and would have be nice to see he there or maybe -- the , uh , Deputy -- secret of state .
Mike Uh-huh .
Paul I be not even sure who that be .
eh , somebody will -- or higher up .
Mike yeah , someone m - a little more , uh Paul some flunky bureaucrat .
Mike yeah .
yeah , it do not seem quite appropriate .
Paul but , uh , at at least for the ceremony in Egypt I think , uh , I can understand that no one would want to go into -- palestinian territory .
I mean , they it be total chaos there .
Mike Uh-huh .
sure .
yeah .
prompt 10 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 2 -rrb- PLO leader PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week , after a lot of controversy surround he illness and death .
what do you think cause he illness , and could it have be something malicious -lrb- like poisoning -rrb- ?
what do you think of Israel 's policy surround Arafat 's illness and death ?
should President Bush or a senior US official have attend Arafat 's funeral ?
should Israel have let Arafat be bury in Jerusalem ?
Marco hello , th - I be Marco from Illinois .
Mike Hi , I be Mike from New Jersey .
Marco New Jersey .
how be you do , Mike ?
Mike Pretty good .
how 's it go ?
Marco Pretty good .
Pretty good .
Mike so - so what do you think ?
Marco Well , I be think - Mike how about you start .
Marco yeah , okay , um , -lrb- -lrb- lot of question -rrb- -rrb- -- and , um , I - I do not think it be poisoning , even though I have not read -- a lot of article about it .
I think - Mike he - he be old .
I mean - Marco y - he be old , yeah .
and - -- and that - i - I do not realize he be not allow to be bury in Jerusalem , which - Mike yeah , but a lot of that have to do with thing that he be do .
Marco yeah .
Mike he be - I mean , like , you know , let 's - i - -- for - for all he do in he later year , eh , Yasser Arafat be responsible for -- a good chunk of al - you know , a lot of -- israeli die -- i - you know .
he basically , eh , i - I be completely tear on the whole thing .
I mean , on one hand -- I think it be kind of wrong that -- that -- you know , the ~ UN just kind of go in and say , hey , you know , guess what ?
you know , we be - we be you know , this be Israel now , state of Israel .
and basically what they do be they carve up the region and - -- without any regard to , you know , tribal -- animosity really , be really what it boil down to , Marco Uh-huh .
uh-huh .
Mike um .
you know , then it th - it be there , he have to try to maintain the status quo -- but they breed -- people like Yasser Arafat , I mean , if it -- if it be not for the stupidity of the United Nations , people like Yasser Yara - Arafat w - probably would have never even get off the ground , you know .
Marco how how do the United Nations , uh , Arafat in power , or help ?
Mike Well , in other word eh , in other -- when -- after World War two when they when -- basically the state of Israel be form Marco Mhm .
Mike in f - uh , nineteen forty eight , I think it be .
Marco yeah .
Mike Um , you know , you - e - -- grant , you know , there be there be jewish people already live there , but -- all the jewish people start go there and they j - basically just - you know , they just take over .
and - and Marco yeah .
Mike in in a region where , uh , you know , y - you know , we live in America .
it be like coup - you know , f - we country 's a couple hundred year old , we get a couple of gripe go back to , you know , what , seventeen seventy six , Marco yeah .
Mike there it go , you know , thous - it be like the Hatfields and the McCoys .
they be fi - they do not even know why they be fight anymore .
they just they hate each other -- and they be always go to hate each other -- and it do not matter who start it , but -- i - you know , somebody eh , th - somebody be in always intent on win .
and it be and it be it be you know , a war of attrition .
nobody win .
it be either , you know , you may kill I , but I be go to kill all of you before - y - you know what I mean ?
it be just i - i - it be stupid .
the whole thing 's stupid .
and a guy like Yasser Arafat , Marco yeah .
yeah .
Mike he be a terrorist .
in in the sixty -- in the mid sixty a - and and a - you know , on into - -- you know , through the mid eighty -- the guy be a terrorist .
Marco so , let we let we not forget that when Israel be -- form -- and they be , um , the -- the Israelis for not feeling -- like they have a legitimate -- right -- some of the land or that -- land be not , um , rightfully theirs .
there be -- two very strong -- militant group that be israeli and they -- commit a lot of terrorist act , Mike oh , the yeah , the Zionists .
abso - absolutely .
Marco much -- yeah .
so , I mean , i - -- you know , uh , how we consider -- Arafat a terrorist , we also should consider that -- could have be , in some way , a reaction to some of the terrorism that be -- initially -- commit by the Israelis .
Mike absolutely .
I be not believe I , I be not I be not excuse -- anybody -- but for the purpose I I mean , the way I see it be you know , I guess for the purpose of the conversation th - -- that they want to hear , Marco yeah .
Mike y - you get to kind of have to put that as y - -- i - it be kind of like -- do if that be the case , do two wrong really make a right ?
you know what I mean ?
Marco but if Arafat have not be I do not know if he be -- directly -- be link to Hamas ' act , uh , but he be put in a -- pretty -- sticky situation have to negotiate -- the militant of -- Palestine -- the international leader -- and if it if Hara - Arafat have not -- somehow appease -- the Hamas group or the palestinian militant , then -- he would have be kick out , overthrow -- by - -- by the Palestinians .
Mike oh , forget about kick out or overthrow , he would have be kill .
that be - that be how it work over there .
Marco yeah .
yeah .
exactly .
well , it it be not really Arafat -- as a individual , I think it be just -- whatever leader -- be -- place in the position of - Mike he be he be basically -- I mean , I have read I have read article a - and - and - and -- story that basically have link he to the to the to the Munich -- massacre -- th - you know , the Munich Olympic massacre th - the be - the israeli team .
it - -- the the problem be -- what he do -- back way back when Marco Uh-huh .
Mike will -- f - forever tarnish anything that he do -- in he later year .
like like you say , bring the group together but the reason that he be able to bring they together be because he be once one of they .
prompt 10 .
death of Arafat -lrb- 2 -rrb- PLO leader PLO leader Yasser Arafat die in a Paris hospital last week , after a lot of controversy surround he illness and death .
what do you think cause he illness , and could it have be something malicious -lrb- like poisoning -rrb- ?
what do you think of Israel 's policy surround Arafat 's illness and death ?
should President Bush or a senior US official have attend Arafat 's funeral ?
should Israel have let Arafat be bury in Jerusalem ?
James hello ?
Joe hello , my name be Joe .
James I be James from Detroit .
Joe Uh , from , uh , New Jersey , but I be live in Atlanta now , go to college .
James oh , okay .
Joe All right .
James -lrb- -lrb- I be sorry . -rrb- -rrb-
Joe so , uh , what do you think about Arafat ?
James Well -- I , uh , I do not think there be anything malicious , uh , in term of he death -- uh , just look at he these last , uh , couple of year uh , it seem like he have Alzheimer 's or something .
Joe yeah , he have be get older .
James yeah , because he be quiver at the mouth and and hand be shake .
and -- I would imagine that living in that compound could not have be that conducive to he health .
Joe yeah , he probably should have be in a hospital or a hospice or James Right .
Joe you know , if it be that bad .
James Right .
right , I be sure that they , I do not know about , bout -- the uh sanitary condition there , but -- I I just do not think it could have be , uh , conducive to he health .
and as far as , uh , Israel , uh , allow -- he to be bury -- uh , in Jerusalem Joe that be accept James huh ?
Joe that be acceptable to I .
I mean James Well , it , it be acceptable to I , but I do not think it be feasible .
Joe feasible James yeah , give the circumstance in that area right now .
I do not even know if they would have be able to pull it off , you know ?
Joe Well , uh , so he , in fact he be not James Pardon I ?
Joe so , um -- no , so he be not bury in Jerusalem .
James No .
no , they bury he -- uh , inside that compound .
Joe oh , I see .
James yeah , they bury he inside that compound .
but like you say , I do not , I do not -- I personally -- uh -- would not have see a problem with it , but -- I just do not think it be feasible .
I do not , I do not think that they would have be -- uh , secure enough to really do it .
I do not think either side would have really -- let it happen -- and -- and as far as a senior U.S. official go , I do not think that would have be necessary either .
um , I know President Bush should not have go -- and he be not go .
Joe Well , I kind of feel , I kind of feel another way .
I think a senior U.S. service in there , should have be there , because I mean -- he , Arafat 's be -- be the one come to all these peace talk , you know , with President Clinton and , you know , other James Mhm .
Joe other um -- litigation towards that .
James Mhm .
Joe you know , I think , I think we could have just show we face and say you know , yeah , we do recognize this man .
James Mhm .
well it , they send someone .
I do not know who it be -- -lrb- -lrb- it be not -rrb- -rrb- Joe it probably , it be not anybody important .
it be just like a James yeah it be a under secretary , there be no doubt about it .
there be no senior Joe James there be no senior U.S. official there .
there be there be no question about that .
Joe yeah .
James but , uh -- you know , uh , Bush 's policy -- towards , uh , Yasser Arafat have be hand off Joe yeah .
James from from the begin cause I do not , I do not think he ever even meet with he .
do he ?
Joe I do not think so .
I do not think so .
James yeah , I I Joe Bush be kind of like , stay away from the whole Israel -- palestinian James Mhm .
now on he part I think that be a mistake .
Joe yeah .
James yeah , you know you get to engage people in some type of dialogue Joe and James if you Joe to I , the talk , the peace talk should have continue -- after Clinton 's administration leave .
James True .
Joe Cause at the cause at the end Clinton be do all this peace talk with Arafat and , um James True .
Mhm .
Joe -lrb- -lrb- forget -rrb- -rrb- the um , prime minister in Israel , but he be talk to he .
James Uh , Sharon .
Joe Sharon , yeah .
James yeah .
Mhm .
Joe they be do all these talk in Camp David and and it should have just continue when br - Bush come into office .
James you be absolutely right .
I agree .
like I say , I think that be one of Bush 's biggest mistake , Joe Mhm .
James not continue -- the talk .
because Clinton have come so very close Joe Yes .
James to to maybe get some type of agreement Joe No .
James but , uh , Bush just take a hand off approach .
he just -- kind of take a hand off approach .
Joe and now the situation in , you know , Jerusalem and the West Bank be just -- escalate .
James absolutely .
and I think too -- Israel 's -- position toward Arafat -- in term of keep he sort of like -- uh -- surround in that compound -- I do not think that be a good idea .
Joe No .
James you know , because that , you can not pick a leader for a people .
whether you like they or not -- people get to choose who they want to follow , Joe exactly .
James and the Palestinians have make it clear -- that Arafat be they leader .
Joe exactly .
James so , I think that they , we should have find a way -- Israel should have find a way -- to -- keep some type of dialogue -- go along .
cause uh , I mean , you look at what be go on now .
Joe Mhm .
James I mean , they policy toward he do not get they anything .
and then you get suicide bombing on the one side , and then you get Israel -- you know , it be like one day , you will he - a bomb will go off , the next day Israel will do and air strike and -- you know , it be like go around in a circle .
Joe yeah .
James it be like go around in a circle .
Joe it be really a bad situation .
James it be .
it be , and it be , it be be so long -- go on , I mean , you be talk about something that be be go on historically for hundred of year .
Joe hundred of year and then , it just recently really come into spectrum , James Mhm .
Joe what , nineteen forty nine ?
James Mhm .
Mhm .
Joe when um -- the Israel state -- come into be , or whatever .
James Right .
right .
prompt 11 .
Holiday Traditions : the holiday season be right around the corner .
who do you like to celebrate with during the holiday ?
do you go to a lot of party with friend , neighbor , co-worker or family member ?
be there people you see during the holiday that you do not see during the rest of the year ?
do you travel to meet up with family or friend during the holiday ?
where do you go and who do you visit ?
Ed Hi this be Ed .
good .
how be you do Jane ?
if you hear noise in the background , I be enjoy the holiday season walk in New York City , so Jane oh , okay .
Ed -lrb- -lrb- city -rrb- -rrb- -- -lrb- -lrb- trust of life -rrb- -rrb- -- crazy people and , uh , other thing go on but that be New York , what can you say .
Jane yeah yeah yeah .
use to live in New York .
my brother-in-law still live in the city but we be Long Island people .
Ed yeah .
Uh , so what be you do for the festive holiday .
Jane you know , it be really bad because I still really do not know .
I be up in the air with about six different client try to decide what we be go to do .
Ed -lrb- -lrb- Allan -rrb- -rrb- -- well , that be not bad .
that mean that you have get a lot of people to see and do thing with .
that be good .
Jane yeah , make it kind of hectic .
how about you ?
what be you do ?
Ed ah , family .
Jane Ach .
Ed yeah .
yeah , we be go to be do , uh , the typical .
go up and celebrate with the family and -- be with the little kid .
you know , the -lrb- -lrb- tough year -rrb- -rrb- and that which make it -- because when you get older it be kind of , I have get all the gift , I do not need that .
what I really want to do be see somebody else enjoy it and the little kid enjoy it .
so - -- and , uh , do a lot of party with family -- and friend .
Jane Well , that be kind of where - we be in between which family we be go to see and when and how and get all that work out .
Ed Uh , Jane Ed so whoev - yeah , I have see they - -- just not the gift it come down to the food .
see , now you -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- .
Jane there you go .
I - one of these choice be meat cooking .
we will have to put that towards the end .
Ed -lrb- -lrb- ah , oui . -rrb- -rrb-
-- eh , -lrb- -lrb- nice -rrb- -rrb- .
so we - we have only - Jane Ed my family 's , uh , parent be decease and most of -lrb- -lrb- they -rrb- -rrb- be , uh , pass my brother all over , so she family 's still younger -- and , uh , you know , just the odd side .
she be the oldest and I be the youngest , so she be get younger which -- keep the thing go , so I - -- you know , my view be -- -lrb- -lrb- stay -rrb- -rrb- with the family go visit the family .
that be all you get .
so -- keep it together through thick and thin and -- when it come to Thanksgiving we go up there and we celebrate .
and then there be little party .
big - uh , she sister do a big family party -- but try to keep that same Jane Ed local family come together .
it be amazing how they can get into little squabble and who do not show up Jane of course .
Ed like that .
I think it be crazy .
so , -lrb- -lrb- so , uh -rrb- -rrb- - Jane they use to always really all get together .
but he parent uh they actually live next door to we .
but they be start to get up in the year , so they be not , you know , host the big party , so it be funny how now people do not all bother to come Ed yeah .
Jane and you kind of wonder you know in the next couple of year what be all go to happen .
be they all go to see each other .
Ed yeah , no that be - that be exactly .
I have already see , you know , -lrb- -lrb- in -rrb- -rrb- my parent -lrb- -lrb- ' bed -rrb- -rrb- until they -lrb- -lrb- get -rrb- -rrb- less and less that the brother get together -- and then now when there be a event you try to do it .
at Christmas it be just impossible because we leave -- two day after Christmas Jane Mhm .
Ed to go out of the country as part of we New Year 's Jane Ed celebration .
so , for we it be , you know , get to be a quick trip up Jane Ed to she family and then back where we - -- we have be invite to be down in Jane Ed another country .
if a person be not - even though it be cold up in the Northeast , it be a family tradition .
I should do it -- and less for the gift and more for Jane Ed be together .
yeah .
Jane Well , we do - -- - for the kid you know we make it pretty cl - Ed I do not know , I think that be great .
Jane - you know , you do not have all the hassle of run around and be crazy and just kind of spend time together Ed and I think that be very - I mean , if - Jane and it be really pretty nice .
Ed yeah , we have not - -- yeah , I think -- e - e - eventually that may happen , the way we be go with , uh , Jane Ed my wife and I with she Jane Ed family .
not as a negative but as a - Jane Ed you know , we do a lot of travel so that be go to be - I think that be go to come up .
Jane Ed but - -- but for now we be still try to do - Jane Ed as long as the mother 's around , we will still do Christmas and act as - Jane Ed she be not really old , but she be get older , so I think that be one reason to stay together Jane Ed and also I think i - be Jane Ed eh , we - we kind of -- infuse a little family party that she sister have so -- I think if we be to go away both of those might fall off a little bit and it do not take but one year and then all of the sudden everybody 's Jane yeah .
Ed not come to it anymore and it be like a - Jane that be it .
that be the way it be .
Ed yeah , but not because - Jane if I be no - Ed it be - -- I - I enjoy the -- smile people and the festive - -- festive nature and -- I think it do get a little commercialized .
-lrb- -lrb- it be not that the - -rrb- -rrb- -- you can ignore that part of it , I guess .
prompt 11 .
Holiday Traditions : the holiday season be right around the corner .
who do you like to celebrate with during the holiday ?
do you go to a lot of party with friend , neighbor , co-worker or family member ?
be there people you see during the holiday that you do not see during the rest of the year ?
do you travel to meet up with family or friend during the holiday ?
where do you go and who do you visit ?
Carol my name be Carol .
Britt Hi , my name 's Britt .
Carol Hi , Britt .
uh .
basically , I -- spend a lot of time with my family .
Britt Mhm .
Carol I usually go to , um , maybe two Christmas party .
one at my office and one at a friend 's house .
Britt yeah .
Carol that include family and friend .
um , and that be basically it .
we do not usually do too much -- other than that .
Britt so most of you family be locate - where , where be you ?
Carol in New Jersey .
Britt New Jersey .
Um , so most of you family be located in you area , then ?
Carol Yes .
Britt that be nice .
Carol yeah , it be .
Britt most of my family have -- move on .
Carol aw .
Britt to other place .
so , I do not -- usually get to have the big family , um , holiday .
Carol Well , we do that on Christmas Eve .
Britt yeah .
Carol Mhm .
Britt yeah , I out we always , in my family we always do present and everything Christmas -- day .
Carol Mhm .
Britt I know a lot of people Carol we do it Christmas Eve .
Britt do it on Christmas Eve .
yeah .
yeah .
so I do not know where that tradition start in my family but that -- we have always do it that way .
um .
but yeah , my family 's all over .
my mom 's -- parent be in Florida , and I have aunt and uncle in Virginia .
I be in Boston , so - Carol oh , wow .
yeah it be hard to get together then .
Britt yeah , it be .
we see a bunch of people for Thanksgiving , but um , I only have Carol Well , that be nice .
Britt one uncle that be in state , and then Carol where do you , uh bost - Massachusetts ?
Britt my dad 's -- yes .
Carol oh , wow .
Britt Um Carol that be hard .
Britt yeah , and then my , my father 's family be all overseas , so .
Carol oh , wow-wee .
Britt Uh , yeah , so , we do not often get to see sometimes people I mean , my aunt come for Christmas .
Carol oh , that be nice .
do you have any child ?
Britt but -- no .
Carol oh .
Britt yeah , I be alm - I be twenty-seven .
I be not quite there yet .
yeah .
Carol oh , you be young .
yeah , you be too young .
Britt but um , actually , this year I - we be go -- uh my parent be also divorce , so it be always difficult because we have to , like , split Christmas .
Carol Sure .
Britt so we would do , like , New year with - I mean , um , Christmas Eve with one set of , you know , parent , and then Christmas day with the other .
so , yeah , it be always tough , so we never really go anywhere .
but , this year be , like , all the child be old enough now that we do not have to split Christmas , so - Carol Mhm .
Britt we be actually , um , go to France for Christmas to have with my aunt , so - Carol oh , how wonderful .
how long will you be out there ?
Britt yeah .
I be leave on Monday and come back on the thirtieth , so um , Carol that be great .
Britt yeah , ten day .
I be so excited .
Carol oh , that be wonderful .
Britt yeah , it be the first vacation I have have all year pretty much , so , so yeah , I be very much look forward to it .
Carol oh , wow .
oh , have a great time .
Britt thank you .
yeah .
Carol that be exciting .
Britt so it be go to be a little different -- this year especially , because it be -- go to be a lot of people - some people I do not even know , and um - Carol Sure .
yeah , but a beautiful country .
Britt Duh - Carol Mhm , good for you .
good for you .
that be great .
good .
Mhm .
Britt or um , work party .
although , this year everything 's be so crazy a - at , at my office that they decide to have the holiday party in January .
Carol what type of work do you do ?
Britt Um , I work for a transportation planning consult firm .
it be -- very different .
it take a while to explain , too , it be just kind of like - Carol sound kind of crazy .
Britt yeah , it be , eh , we be not -- a architecture firm or a , or a construction firm , and be not engineering either .
we kind of Carol Mhm .
Britt so the work that come -- beforehand .
so , like , when , Carol okay .
Britt you know , um , I do not know , say New Jersey Transit Authority come to we and say , we want a , you know - Carol Mhm .
oh .
Mhm .
Britt so it be interesting .
Carol oh , that be different .
Britt yeah , and it Carol Well , I be a teacher .
Britt oh , great .
what -- what do you teach ?
Carol Uh , I teach adult high school right now .
I be retire from full-time teaching , Britt oh , wow .
Carol but I teach adult high school , so I teach career and history -- three night a week .
Britt oh , great .
Carol and then I usually sub during the day -- or watch child .
it depend .
Britt yeah .
Carol but it be fun .
I - I really enjoy it -- a lot .
Britt I always want to be teacher .
my parent kind of talk I out of it .
Carol they be smart .
Britt yeah .
Carol I talk my daughter out of it .
no , I would not recommend anyone go into teaching now .
Britt really ?
Carol it be change so dramatically .
yeah .
I would not rec - as a matter of fact I do not recommend it Britt yeah .
Carol to anybody .
Britt Well , when I be - I want to be a music teacher and that would have be even harder Carol oh god , yeah .
Britt I think because the - one , you get lay off first pr - you know , first person to get lay off be go to be the art and Carol Mhm .
that be right .
and that be what ha - what be happen .
Britt which make I so upset .
oh , I c - it drive my crazy , like , Carol Uh-huh .
Britt i - you know , art and music be so Carol they be important .
Britt so important to you culture and , you know , wh - have be a well rounded person .
I mean , you can not do it , at least you could try , you know , and you - I just - -- not everything can be academic , you know .
Carol that be right .
absolutely .
prompt 11 .
Holiday Traditions : the holiday season be right around the corner .
who do you like to celebrate with during the holiday ?
do you go to a lot of party with friend , neighbor , co-worker or family member ?
be there people you see during the holiday that you do not see during the rest of the year ?
do you travel to meet up with family or friend during the holiday ?
where do you go and who do you visit ?
Ryan hello , my name 's Ryan .
Deirdre Ryan , Ryan Mhm .
Deirdre my name be Deirdre .
Ryan Hi , Deirdre .
Deirdre so , what do you do for the holiday ?
do you celebrate the holiday ?
be it religious for you , or just the holiday season ?
Ryan it be religious for we .
um , Christmas , not Hanukkah or anything like that .
Deirdre Uh-huh , so yo - you have a church service ?
Ryan Um , actually , usually we be out of town so we do not attend we church .
Deirdre so you go with , um , family , friend ?
Ryan Family , yeah .
Deirdre Family ?
Ryan it be almost always my grandma .
Deirdre you gran - you go to you grandma 's house .
Ryan Mhm .
Deirdre yeah , that be what we do .
every year , uh , but I do not always attend .
uh , my family -- celebrate the sun shine .
they be always together .
so , uh , it be not particularly special at Christmas -- because they see each other every other weekend .
but , still , uh , they go to , uh , grandmother 's -- every Christmas .
a particular person 's house every holiday season .
you know , whether it be Christmas or -- Thanksgiving or Mother 's day or Easter , it just alternate it - you know , each - uh , a particular person 's house be - be how they do it .
Ryan oh .
Deirdre I just do not always attend .
just - -- I do not know , it be - -- there be just so much of my family I can take during one year , you know , but - Ryan Well , um , since they see each other so much , be there anything that do make it special ?
Deirdre Well , I guess they seem to think it be just special because -- everyone come .
I - I - it be - -- it be just , I do not know , old .
y - you know , it be - it be not - -- it be not special to I because they do it all the time .
you know , special would make it , I only see you once a year .
it be just not - it be just not special if I see you every other month .
Ryan yeah .
Deirdre you know , it be just not .
I mean , you know , not like , you be see you mother -- or you sister , maybe you brother , you know , you - you might - you may see they all the time , but when you see you aunt and uncle and all you cousin -- all the time , where 's the break here ?
but , you know , they like - I do not particularly care for it , but they like it .
I do attend Thanksgiving and Ryan Huh .
Deirdre that be nice .
um , uh , it be - it be a good day .
uh , but , you know , we - we -- spend all day together .
it be not like you just go and eat dinner a couple of hour and go home .
you go and you stay twelve hour -- because most of my relative live within thirty minute of each other , Ryan -lrb- -lrb- ye - -rrb- -rrb- Deirdre so it be easy .
Ryan oh , wow .
Deirdre yeah .
it be easy just to go to someone 's house .
Ryan Well , sound a lot like my mom 's side of the family because they be all in one city except for Deirdre and - Ryan except for she and , uh , we .
Deirdre Well , would you rather be with everyone else or do you like it -- away .
Ryan I think I would rather be , but then again -- I talk to my cousin and I be always ask she how my other cousin be do and -- she hardly know because she have - hardly see they every day .
Deirdre oh .
Ryan so I do not think it would make a big difference .
Deirdre for you , yeah , well .
I do not -lrb- -lrb- see they or - -rrb- -rrb- you know , by choice and , you know , relative -- be particular people , you know , but not particular , peculiar people , let 's put it that way .
it be just -- funny to I who you end up with , you know , Ryan yeah .
Deirdre as you relative , you know .
you think , eh , you be my rela - you get to be kid I .
wh - -- what happen here but , uh , it be fun , uh .
now , I be not so big on Christi - I mean , I be - I be raise Christian , uh , but , uh , and I do not put too much , you know , in my house with my kid -- but my daught - , she be just -- you know , she get 's into it .
she be really sentimental .
she be get into the holiday spirit and want every light , you know , in the city on we house and , you know , tree in she room , that kind of thing .
Ryan yeah .
Deirdre you know , I - I indulge she , you know .
but I do not really get too much into it .
you know , the - -- all the , um , trimming , I suppose , of the holiday season .
uh , but I like , you know , gift give and -- just , uh , share thing and just have fun .
just , uh , just do not over do it .
but I would prefer , though , um , a service , a spiritual service -- to uh , family 's just always together , they be always together .
now if there be a spiritual service then , yeah , see that would be really special to I .
if everybody - now wh - eh , eh , now year ago , and of course I be not give away my age but trust I , I be older , Ryan yeah .
Deirdre eh , I use to , um , celebrate it with my grandmother -- and we would always have a midnight service at church .
now , I enjoy that .
Gosh that be so many year a - Ryan wow , a midnight service , like , um , Christmas Eve ?
Deirdre yeah .
yeah .
Ryan wow .
prompt 11 .
Holiday Traditions : the holiday season be right around the corner .
who do you like to celebrate with during the holiday ?
do you go to a lot of party with friend , neighbor , co-worker or family member ?
be there people you see during the holiday that you do not see during the rest of the year ?
do you travel to meet up with family or friend during the holiday ?
where do you go and who do you visit ?
Carrie hello .
Mildred Hi .
Carrie my name 's Carrie .
Mildred Hi , I be mildr from West Virginia .
Carrie Well , I be in Alabama .
I have be - Mildred you be in Alabama .
Carrie I have be to you lovely state once before , down in the holler .
yeah , a long time ago .
Mildred oh , have you ?
I have two sister that live in Alabama .
Carrie Well , be not it a small world .
Mildred yeah , it be .
one 's in Pell City , one 's in Birmingham .
Carrie so .
well , I know where they be at , but I be not very close to that .
Mildred oh , you be not ?
Carrie No , I be in the northern part of the state .
Mildred oh .
oh .
Carrie do you all have a big Christmas at you house ?
Mildred No , not really .
Carrie yeah .
Mildred we - Carrie Kind of quiet .
Mildred we go to my niece 's house and Carrie yeah .
Mildred she cook for we .
I use to do that and now she be take over , which I be so happy .
uh , yeah quite a few .
my kid , uh , kid and they kid come , all but one of they .
Carrie yeah .
yeah .
Mildred my son go to he in-law , but my two girl will come and Carrie Mhm .
right .
Mildred and then some of my sister .
I have a sister in Ohio , she usually come in .
Carrie yeah , you all be spread out .
Mildred yeah .
yeah , we be .
Carrie Mm .
when ?
Mildred W - -- well , there be , uh , seven of we , er , eight of we .
Carrie Mildred six of they be -- seven of they be girl , count I .
I only have one brother .
Carrie oh my .
mm mm mm .
Mildred so , they be spread out .
Carrie Mm mm .
well , we -- Christmas Eve be the big day for - -- - but not Christmas Eve because we always get together on Christmas Eve .
when I be little , we live in Wisconsin , Mildred Uh-huh .
Carrie and then when we move to Alabama there be not a lot of family close by .
- for the holiday and it be the only holiday that we actually all get together on .
Mildred Uh-huh .
Carrie - fourth of July , drop of a hat .
so , I tell he , I say , you know , if we can squeeze in run by Christmas Eve on the way to my parent ' , fine , but , Mildred Carrie you know , that be it .
anybody can come here Christmas day that want to .
you know , we do not -- my - my father-in-law - Mildred ah .
Carrie - and then if - -- if he will not , you know , eh , sometimes I cook a Christmas dinner , sometimes I do not .
just depend if my husband have to work or not , um , depend on what I be go to do .
mm mm mm .
Mildred Wha - eh , oh .
well , there be a lot of we .
so , we get together like - Carrie but - -- yeah .
right .
Mildred - well , my sister usually come in from Ohio because it be not that far like -- two hundred fifty mile or something , and she will come in for Thanksgiving .
Carrie Right .
yeah .
Mildred and we all eat together which be real nice .
Carrie Well , that be go -- that be funny that you say that , two hundred and fifty mile not be far - Mildred Uh-huh .
uh-huh .
Carrie - and she be go to have to fly back to Wisconsin , um - Mildred Uh-huh .
Carrie Mm mm mm .
Mildred Eh , that be not too far to I .
Carrie No .
Mildred Well , like , Alabama from here , my sister 's be about six hundred mile from I , the one down there .
now , that be a long way to I .
Carrie Mhm .
yeah .
yeah , that be , uh .
Mildred but , uh , two hundred and fifty 's not too bad .
Carrie - I go to a place can -- I want to say it be call Stump Town , Mildred Mhm .
Carrie or something like that , but , Mildred Never hear of it .
Carrie uh , it be a real small place .
it - they w - have to go up there about some natural gas rights or something like that .
Mildred Uh .
oh .
Carrie but - Mildred you be in the country Carrie yeah .
yeah , you have to cross a little walking , swing bridge to get to this man 's house , you know .
I do not like that part .
Mildred oh .
prompt 11 .
Holiday Traditions : the holiday season be right around the corner .
who do you like to celebrate with during the holiday ?
do you go to a lot of party with friend , neighbor , co-worker or family member ?
be there people you see during the holiday that you do not see during the rest of the year ?
do you travel to meet up with family or friend during the holiday ?
where do you go and who do you visit ?
Kate Hi .
I be Kate in Pennsylvania .
Judy okay .
this be Judy from Mayfield , Kentucky .
Kate Well , hi Judy .
I think we may have talk before .
Judy oh .
May we ?
Kate I do not know .
Judy I have -- do so many , I do not remember .
Kate Judy I have talk to people from Pennsylvania , yes .
so yeah .
Kate Hm .
well , what - where - how far do you travel for you holiday ?
Judy Um , I travel on Christmas day only about a hour and a half .
Kate that be not bad .
Judy No .
go to Tennessee to see my , uh , two sister .
Kate okay .
Judy my brother go - we go together .
my brother , he wife , my husband and myself .
Kate okay .
then you spend the day there ?
Judy Yes , and , uh , Christmas Eve we spend - my husband and I spend with my mother-in-law and she - and he family .
my husband 's family .
Kate okay .
so , pretty much , uh , um , n - m - we , uh , have - we have two adult child that have be marry in the last two year , and I be just wonder just how long it be go to be that the - -- they be do the , um , you know , he parent she parent , uh , Christmas trip , but sound like you have be do that for a while .
Judy Well my mom and dad be dead .
I be fifty-one , and both of my parent have be dead a while .
they be older .
and , um , I do not - -- I have not be really - well , I have have chronic fatigue syndrome real bad .
Kate oh boy .
Judy so , um , and I be not able to get out much .
so that be why my brother and he wife be come to get we on Christmas day .
but , uh , no , um -- part of we family 's sort of be estrange , so to speak .
so it will be very interesting .
my brother and I be real close , and my sister Kate Uh-huh .
Judy that -- live away from here in Arkansas -- be real close , but the two sister from Tennessee , we be not real close .
Kate so , this be not something that -- be a regular tradition ?
Judy Uh , this be go to be a new one , Kate aw , well - Judy go to Tennessee , and the regular tradition be go to my mother - in-law 's .
Kate okay .
Judy so , eh , we be set up tradition .
because they be out there - Kate Well , bless you .
I really hope that , uh , that it - it be a good one , and that you have a Judy I do too .
um , Kate wonderful time .
Judy Um , now , uh , di - but we be go to set this up as a tradition to meet at this one sister 's house in Tennessee .
Um , yeah and thi - and we be not do gift this year , but next year we be go to give - draw name .
Kate oh , good .
Judy so , there , that be a tradition that be go to be set up .
but I do not go to a lot of party , and I be not able to go to church , so -- the party they would have there I , you know , I be not do .
so I be not able to do , uh , much .
so , we do not , you know , and I ne - never be a , you know , I mean , I do not , I do not like go up to jo - a whole bunch of party .
Kate Right .
yeah , we be not much party people , either .
um , we have , uh , some family very - my husband 's , uh , brother and he family -- live in the same town .
uh , we have , uh , one of we married child in the same town up here , and one of they down in South Carolina .
Judy oh wow .
Kate Um , so it will be nice .
they will be come up for Christmas , and so we will have - Judy how old be you child ?
Kate my oldest be , uh , twenty-five , and , uh , the next one 's twenty-three , and -- I have get a twenty year old and a sixteen year old Judy oh wow .
Kate still at home , so .
Judy I think I have - may have talk - I may have talk to you .
I have a twenty-eight year old son and a twenty-two year old daughter , and neither one of they live at home .
Kate oh .
okay , so be they -- close by , or ?
Judy Well , my daughter be in Louisville , clear across the state , and she be not come home .
and , uh , but , uh , you know , it be really -- for the good for because of the kind of life she be live right now .
she be bi - polar , and - Kate oh boy .
Judy yeah , it be a h - -- it be a han - she be a - she can be a handful .
but , uh , yeah , we will - we will make it .
my son 's go to be move back home next year , and he be a joy .
Kate ah .
Judy he be go to go into the , uh - he be go to be a pastor and a counselor .
Kate No kidding ?
Judy and I be a counselor .
I be a therapist .
Kate oh , that be wonderful .
Judy I be just not able to work right now .
Kate oh , with the fatigue .
Judy Right .
it be wha - it be more than fatigue .
it be a whole group of thing , and it - and you run a lot of fever .
when you get in the severe stage , you know , you get out once a week and do what you have to do - because my husband do not drive , because of coordination problem from a head injury - -- and that put you out for the rest of the week .
Kate oh my word .
well , you have a lot to deal with .
Judy Well , I have a lot of faith in God , so that work .
Kate Yes .
amen .
Judy that work with my holiday , too .
prompt 13 .
War in Iraq the US be currently engage in major fighting in Fallujah , Iraq .
much of the country be unstable , but national election be still schedule to take place in Iraq in January .
do you think the US be do the right thing in Iraq ?
if not , what should we be do intstead ?
do you think the election schedule for January will take place , and if not , then what ?
a I agree .
I agree with that .
do - do you know of anybody who be over there at all right now ?
b um , not right now , no .
no .
a I have -- my cousin 's get ready to go over there and it just , oh , it just make I sick .
it just -- b yeah .
well , I do not blame you .
I -- like I say , you know , most of my family be a the whole thing .
b military and , uh , you know , it be funny because my husband be in the marine and he be all , you know , well , you know , they be over there do a duty .
but my dad be in the army and he be in Vietnam war and he be like , this be crazy , you know .
Bush be a idiot , you know .
a yep .
b and , um , I mean , I agree with my dad and , you know , if anybody should know it be someone that fight in a war , you know .
a exactly .
exactly , they would definitely know .
well , you he - you hear these people say that , I mean , that be in the mili - military you - you -- that it sa - you - some people who have come back home already and everything that they do not agree with the whole thing .
I mean , it be -- that be - that be pretty -- b and he - -- that be bad when , you know - a that be bad when they be there and be - and be live and they do not agree with it , you know .
b exactly .
exactly .
well , my dad say basically it be for the money .
it be for the money .
a eh .
b and and and to I , to let people die because so you friend a yeah .
b you know you politician friend and whoever other friend can make more money .
they be already rich .
how much more money do they need ?
a exact - they be -- greedy .
greedy greedy greedy .
b you know - -- yeah .
yeah , I mean , and and here be these military guy give they life , and work hard every day through training and stuff even if there be not a war , a exactly .
b and you be pay they piss -- because I do not know if you watch the news a lot , but , uh , like , last summer they show military people stand on line for , like , get food and stuff that they do not get pay enough -- to where - a yeah , they say that there be some -- yeah , I be - I see a story about that where they - where they be - b yeah , it be , like , on twenty twenty or something .
a yeah , they be - where they be come home from the war and they -- yeah , they be - they be pretty much homeless and - and ha - they have nothing .
b yeah .
yeah , so what the hell be go on ?
you know , you be send these guy over there and you want they to be at peace of mind , you know , they - you want they to be able to fight , you know , a that be - -- eh , yeah .
b and to be able to save they life and they be worry about they family .
you know , that be just -- a yeah , and they c - the come home to nothing after g - all they have go through they come home and they have nothing .
b you can not do that .
yeah .
a that be just -- eh , that be just pathetic .
b that be what -- you know , that be what people need to , you know , speak up about and nobody - nobody ever do .
and - and it be like a , you know , I do not know if you remember , but it be like a nobody do .
I know .
b right -- a little bit right after the war start in Iraq there be a soldier that speak out and he get reprimand for it .
a yes , I do remember that .
yes , he get , um , he - well , one , uh -- somebody , like , leave do not they ?
they just -- he be , like , one of the major - b yeah , but this be another guy .
he just -- he repri - you know , he - he just , a it be -- another guy .
b uh , speak out against the war publicly and he get reprimand for it a b and it be suppose to be a big no-no .
but , you know what , they have every right , you know .
what happen to America ?
a yeah , it be freedom of speech .
I mean , we use to have to right to say what you - b yeah , we be over there supposedly help Iraq , and I do not think those people care either -- a no , I do not think they - b I mean , uh , some of they do -- but then most of the idiot be the one that be cause these problem .
if it be -- -- if it -- if they think that it be such a great thing , then why be not the people help we ?
you know , a exactly .
b I as a person , if some - if someone come over and be help I , I as a person whether I be in the military or not , I would be help and I would be go around say , look idiot , stop bomb - you know , I jus - a right .
b uh , instead of -- it - it seem like every time they do a news report there be even the average m - Joe Schmo over there be complain , you know .
a e - exactly , and it - it just make you wonder h - eh , what really be , I mean , what be it really like in there ?
why be not they -- why be not they come to er - b yeah , and if they be not go to be grateful , then what the hell .
a what the hell be we do over there ?
yeah , wh - they - why be not they appreciate we a little more .
b yeah yeah yeah .
exactly , because they really do not .
I mean , they look at we as -- the party that be cause problem , look at we as we be very corrupt .
you have to remember , religion-wise , a yep .
b how they be .
what - they way we live be just -- totally against they be religion .
a and that be , eh , they - the way they live be just so weird anyway , you know , it be just - b yeah .
yeah , but they think of we as weird .
-lrb- -lrb- hold on Jen . -rrb- -rrb-
you know , so , you just , uh , a exactly .
I , uh - b everybody be get they own way of , you know , think and - and they do not want -- the biggest problem be - be -- we be push ourselves on they , you know .
they be not push they religion on we .
a exactly .
exactly .
b you know , and so -- I - I guess -- I would have a problem if someone be shove something down my throat , you know , say , this be how it should be .
and - and that be -- and that be how we be - we be .
we be go over there , we be say , look , this be how we do it -- and , um , i - -- so we think everybody else should be that way .
a d - do you know much about the -- what - what be the election go on in January ?
do you know what go - I - b i - I really have not pay attention .
I know that it be suppose to go on .
I know that , a I - -- - ther .
b um , one of the other country , I can not think of the name , try do it and then it be a big -- they have a big -- problem because they say it be a , um , that it - -- the guy should not have win .
I forget which country that be .
oh , Afghanistan do a a - ghanistan .
b in ele - election , and they have a problem with who the leader be , and it
prompt 13 .
War in Iraq the US be currently engage in major fighting in Fallujah , Iraq .
much of the country be unstable , but national election be still schedule to take place in Iraq in January .
do you think the US be do the right thing in Iraq ?
if not , what should we be do intstead ?
do you think the election schedule for January will take place , and if not , then what ?
Joe yeah , hi , my name be Joe .
Tom hello ?
Joe hello ?
Tom okay , hang on just a sec , would you please .
Joe okay .
Tom okay .
I have to put my hearing aid on .
Joe - kay .
oh , okay .
Tom so , uh , I just talk to someone yesterday about the problem in Iraq .
Joe oh , you do ?
oh , okay .
I do not -- Tom oh .
Joe I do not get a call yesterday -- but , um , my - my name be Joe and what - what be you name ?
Tom I be Tom .
Joe Tom , okay .
where be you from ?
Tom Uh , Pocatello , Idaho .
Joe Idaho , oh , okay .
c - I be in Connecticut .
Tom Mhm .
say again ?
Joe I say , I be in Connecticut .
Tom oh .
Joe -lrb- -lrb- t - I have a -rrb- -rrb- Tom get a -- I have get a son close to there , eh , Philadelphia .
Joe oh , okay .
well , that be not too far .
Tom yeah .
Joe Well , I have a nephew , he just get back from Iraq .
Tom oh , yeah .
Joe he be in the army and he be go to probably be go to Afghanistan he tell I .
um , Tom Again ?
Joe Well , yeah , he will be go -- well , he be not sure yet because he be in the army and , uh , Tom oh .
Joe he do not get he papers where he be go to be c - -- he be in upstate New York right now but he be go to -- have to probably go back to - to either Iraq or Af - Afghanistan .
Tom yeah .
Joe so , he do not know .
he be not sure .
Tom Well , that be not fair .
I - I do not know they could send they more than once .
Joe oh , well , there - there be be people that have be -- I do not know if you have be watch sixty Minutes , there be a story of this lady that be -- she -- -- she be a , um , uh , what do you call it , um , uh , reservist Tom Uh-huh .
Joe and she do she time back in the sixty and she be like fifty something year old now .
and they be go to call she to go .
Tom you get to be -- -- huh .
my goodness .
Joe yeah .
yeah , they do not -- they do not have , um -- see what happen with the , um , the volunteer army , they be not get enough people , so they be think of maybe get - put in a draft .
Tom ah .
eh , she be ar - she be already -- in the service -- and they be call she back in ?
Joe be in the service , she - -- yep , she do she time .
she think -- she be still in -- actually she be still in the service , Tom oh , yeah .
Joe but she do she time .
Tom oh , oh , she be still in the service .
Joe yeah .
Tom okay .
Joe so they might - she -- -- this be what the story be about -- and there be some people that do not want to go .
Tom yeah .
Joe you know , so , but it be - it be kind of a scary thing and I do not know if the United States be do the right thing .
I do not know , to tell you the truth .
Tom I -- do not think so .
Joe I - I kind of lean - Tom Uh , I think - -- I think Bush -- be , uh , try to -- -- you know , he he dad -- pull everybody out when they just , uh , kick -- people out of , uh , Joe Kuwait .
Tom Kuwait .
Joe Yep .
Tom okay , he want to make sure everything be do over there before he come back .
Joe yeah , he want to finish the job that he father Tom that be what I think .
Joe start , pretty much .
that be why he father do not want to invade Iraq , because of all these problem they be have now .
he know that there be go to be -- look at all these insurgent .
look at what happen a couple day ago , they kill , um , like seventy people .
they -- put a bomb right into where the -- the , uh , Tom oh , man .
well Joe -lrb- -lrb- -rrb- -rrb- guy where station there in Iraq .
Tom well , what be the the the Joe you know , I do not en - vote for George Bush .
I do not know why - how he get elect , I mean , there be a lot of people that do vote .
Tom I do not either .
I do not either vote for he either time , Joe yeah .
Tom you know .
Joe Well , but , I mean , you know , I do not see what he be do , I mean , look all the people that be leave he cabinet -- and they call for , um , Run - Rumsfeld 's regigna - resignation and , uh , even John McCain , he be a republican , he want he -- -- he want Rumsfeld to get out of there .
Tom yeah .
I nev - eh , Joe -lrb- -lrb- Cool . -rrb- -rrb-
Tom have you notice how many of he , uh , um , staff Joe yeah , they be all Tom have resign ?
Joe go .
yeah , look at Colin Powell , look at , uh , George Tom yeah .
Joe Tenet .
uh , he be have , uh , quite a few .
he be have at least , at least eight at the - the last count I check , probably more .
Tom yeah .
Joe The Homeland Security guy , um , Tom R - Joe Tom Ridge , he be Tom Well , yeah , and and they name another one and he resign .
Joe go .
yeah , that guy Bernard , uh , the guy that be New York mayor .
or , not the mayor the New York police department chief or whatever .
eh , he quit , or he resign .
something about , um , he have a legal maze or something .
yeah , it be all -- you know , I I I do not know if we be do the right thing because now look at Iran , what be we go to be , uh , and he he be talk about try to invade Iran now .
prompt 13 .
War in Iraq the US be currently engage in major fighting in Fallujah , Iraq .
much of the country be unstable , but national election be still schedule to take place in Iraq in January .
do you think the US be do the right thing in Iraq ?
if not , what should we be do intstead ?
do you think the election schedule for January will take place , and if not , then what ?
Allan Hi , I be Allan from ~ la. .
a you be from what ?
Allan ~ LA , ~ la. .
a uh-huh .
Allan Um , yeah , ok - um , eh , uh , it be talk something about , uh , the war in Iraq , um , I guess , yeah , it be a good thing -- about the election that be go on .
a Right .
I just talk to somebody from ~ LA a couple day ago about that on the -- survey line .
Allan oh , the - a um , Allan you get the same topic or - a yeah , I think it be the same topic .
so , huh .
so , Allan Uh .
a do you think the election be go to happen ?
Allan Sorry ?
a do you think the election be go to happen ?
Allan yeah , I think the -- I think they be still they be go to go through even though , uh , even though , um , what be it call , that you know of all the -- turmoil that be happen there and all of the argu - you know , and all the -- killing and everything .
I think it will still go through , you know .
the -- it be democracy , you know , you have to fight for it .
it be not -- it do not come easily , you know .
a Right .
yeah , that be why I think it will , too , because they - they push it in Iraq .
I mean , uh , excuse I , in Afghanistan .
they keep on schedule they and they we be say , oh , no no no , you know .
Allan Um , yeah , I think -- you know I think they should have continue to go through with it , and you know um -- if - if there be -- if there be problem , you know , just -- still -- do not , you know -- just ignore it , keep go , you know you can not -- stop , you know , if you already start something , you know , you should complete it , I think .
a Right .
Allan I mean , if they leave -- if they leave , you know , if the - eh , let 's say they , you know , they just leave right now , you know , the the -- they can not , you know , I do not think the -- the -- the occupant themselves regain control and , you know , and mo - and , you know , and -- put down the power and , you know , a - and control everything they can .
they just need they , you know , they need assistance and to get off -- get off , you know , on the right step .
I think they be go to need the military to be in there .
and assist they with the election and they need to complete the election and all this .
a yeah , um , yeah , I do not know what the end game , per se , be go to be there , you know , because , eh , they - the problem be the - be the culture , you know , it be -- pretty , uh , you know , it be really almost like a modern day crusade , you know , and that be - that be kind of hard , you know .
a lot of -- there be a lot of embitterment that go back generation and stuff , so , you know , we have -- I do not know , I always think we have such a short mindset , uh , but they do not .
so , that be why , uh , I - I do not know i - there be always go to be problem there , I just do not -- I do not know how long we should -- be in Iraq .
I mean , definitely to keep it stable .
I - -- eh , I just -- I - I think the situation could be handle better .
I - I think it be a great idea fir - they go in there -- and do what they do but , uh , they have a short window of opportunity to win over the people and it do not happen .
I do not know if that be just out of we control or - or what or if we could have do a better job but , uh , you know .
Allan do you support the -- do you - do you support the war ?
a what be that now ?
Allan do you support the war ?
a yeah .
yeah , I do at first I just - I just -- I -- do not like the way it be manage .
I think -- I think , uh , they do a great job up front , of course .
you know , they do militarily-wise , they do a excellent job but I think they have do a poor job , you know , reconstruct and just control the situation .
you know , they - Allan yeah , I - I agree also .
yeah , I - I mean , I - I do support the war .
I just think that when they go in there , you know they -- they just do not -- you know , they do not i - execute everything correctly , you know there be problem , you know .
a yeah .
Allan and I think I mean , that that lead to it , but yeah , I mean they -- I mean eh you know you be already in it , so you know , you should not -- you can not just walk down and , you know , stop , you get to complete what you be do , you know .
so I a right .
Allan yeah , um .
a but , they - they definitely need to take a back seat to some sort -- you know , some sort of iraqi government there .
I know they set up the council , uh , interim council , but that have not go , you know , perfe - smoothly .
um , they still -- Americans have be call the shot .
so , if they can just sort of make a -- be - get into more of a supportive role and , you know , flex they muscle when they need to and maybe that will help - help , uh , squall some of the vi - the violence .
I do not know .
eh , if they could have -- if they could have shore up the border , right after go in there , that would have be a -- that would have be a - a big plus , you know .
I do not know if that could , uh , if that be a -- plausible goal or not because , uh , it be just that - that -- a lot of that be , you know , uh , weapon and terrorist have be , you know , get through the border , probably from Syria .
Allan yeah .
DAVAO , Philippines , March 4 -lrb- afp -rrb- at least 19 people be kill and 114 people be wound in Tuesday 's southern Philippines airport blast , official say , but report say the death toll could climb to 30 .
Radio station dxdc place the death toll at 30 , without give a source for the figure , which official could not immediately confirm .
the Davao Medical Center , a regional government hospital , record 19 death with 50 wound .
medical evacuation worker however say the injured list be around 114 , spread out at various hospital .
a powerful bomb tear through a wait shed at the Davao City international airport at about 5.15 pm -lrb- 0915 GMT -rrb- while another explosion hit a bus terminal at the city .
there be no report of injury in the second blast .
`` it be a very powerful bomb .
the wait shed literally explode , '' say Vice Mayor Luis Bongoyan , speak to local radio station television footage show medical team cart away dozen of wound victim with fully arm troops on guard .
many of the victim be show with hastily apply bandage , and team of nurse and doctor be see in packed emergency room attend to the wound .
HAIFA , Israel , March 5 -lrb- afp -rrb- - fifteen people be kill and more than 30 wound Wednesday as a suicide bomber blow himself up on a student bus in the northern town of Haifa , the first bombing in Israel in exactly two month .
several hour later , dozen of israeli tank advance into the northern Gaza Strip back by helicopter which fire at least three rocket in the Jabaliya area , palestinian security source say .
palestinian medical source say 60-year-old Mohammed al-Biyari be kill in he home near Jabaliya refugee camp by the rocket fire and another wound .
a second rocket land in farmland and the other hit a house inside the refugee camp , but without cause further casualty , palestinian security source say .
two 13-year-old child be among those kill in the Haifa bus bombing , israeli public radio say , add that most of the victim be youngster .
the army say two soldier be also among the dead .
the bus be rip to shred while travel between a residential area and Haifa university .
of the 33 injure still in hospital late Wednesday , two be in intensive care and six other in serious condition , the radio say .
Israel 's night-time raid in Gaza involve around 40 tank and armoured vehicle come after Prime Minister Ariel Sharon convene he security cabinet to discuss a response to the bomb attack .
israeli media say the retaliation be unlikely to be on a scale that would risk disrupt US preparation for war on Iraq .
the palestinian suicide bomber on the Haifa bus come from the southern West Bank town of Hebron , public radio say , name he as 20-year-old Mahmoud Hamadan Salim Qawasmi .
apart from he id card , also find in the wreckage be the remains of a letter allegedly outline he plan to carry out a suicide attack and praise the September 2001 destruction of the World Trade Centre in New York , it say .
israeli police be not immediately available for comment , but palestinian source in Hebron say Mahmoud Qawasmi be a 21-year-old student with link to the islamic radical group Hamas .
israeli force move into Hebron 's Al-Sheikh district where he family live and arrest Qawasmi 's brother and father after the bombing , they say .
without claim responsibility , Hamas and another hardline group , Islamic Jihad , say the blast be revenge for a string of bloody israeli army raid into the Gaza Strip in recent week .
but the palestinian Authority condemn the attack , say it would divert international sympathy away from the far higher palestinian civilian death toll .
`` we condemn all attack against civilian include today 's attack in Haifa , '' say information minister Yasser Abed Rabbo .
the palestinian leadership say the attack would serve as `` a pretext for Israel 's government and occupation army to step up its deadly campaign which cause the death of 77 Palestinians in February '' .
it be the first bomb attack inside Israel since January 5 , and come just day after the hawkish Sharon appoint the most right-wing government in Israel 's history on a pledge to get tough on security .
in the January attack , two palestinian suicide bomber blow themselves up in central Tel Aviv , kill 23 other people .
israeli government spokesman Avi Pazner call the latest deadly blast a `` very grave attack '' and say the jewish state would take `` vigorous action against the terrorist organisation '' .
he tell afp that israeli intelligence have be deal with at least 40 tip-off of impend attack when the Haifa bus be blow up .
US President George W. Bush condemn the `` attack on innocent in Israel , '' White House spokesman Ari Fleischer say , add that `` he message to the terrorist be : they effort will not be succcessful .
`` he will continue to pursue the path to peace in the Middle East . ''
EU foreign policy supremo Javier Solana likewise slam the attack , although he also take a jab at Israel , say , `` there have be too many civilian kill in the last week and the last day . ''
in London , a spokesman for the british prime minister say Tony Blair `` condemn absolutely what have happen '' .
the spokesman add that he `` would obviously call on all side to do what they can to break the cycle of violence , because it be only through engagement that we can realise the vision everyone want to see .
`` there need to be dialogue in order for this to be resolve . ''
the bus attack come just two day after israeli force stage a bloody raid into a refugee camp in central Gaza target a found member of Hamas , which have spearhead suicide bombing against the jewish state .
Hamas vow to continue its attack , while the palestinian Authority accuse Israel of try to disrupt top-level palestinian meeting to discuss reform of Arafat 's administration .
palestinian chief negotiator Saeb Erakat say international intervention be need to break the cycle of violence .
eight people , include a pregnant woman and a 13-year-old child be kill in Monday 's Gaza raid , provoke us-led international call for israeli restraint .
and on Tuesday , Israeli troops shoot dead a elderly palestinian shepherd outside a jewish settlement on the edge of Gaza City .
in the West Bank , a eight-year-old palestinian boy as well as he brother and a sister be wound late Wednesday by Israeli gunfire in a village north of the town of Ramallah , they elder sister say .
NEW YORK , March 11 -lrb- afp -rrb- the world 's most powerful fine art auction house , Sotheby 's and Christie 's , have agree to pay 40 million dollar to settle a international price-fixing scam , Sotheby 's say .
the payment , if approve by the court , would settle a slew of suit by client over auction hold between 1993 and 2000 outside the United States , it say in a statement .
`` under the term of the settlement agreement , Sotheby 's and Christie 's will each pay 20 million dollar , '' say Sotheby 's , which operate in 34 country .
the deal require threaten british and canadian claim against both auction house to be drop .
buyer and seller also would have to agree not to pursue further case in foreign court .
the litigation cover buyer in auction outside the United States between January 1 , 1993 and February 7 , 2000 , and seller between September 1 , 1995 and February 7 , 2000 .
similar claim over us-based auction be settle in a agreement strike in September 2000 for a total of 512 million dollar .
in December 2001 , a Manhattan jury convict Sotheby 's main shareholder and former chairman Alfred Taubman of enter into a price-fixing agreement with Christie 's .
four month later , the billionaire be sentence to one year in prison and a 7.5-million-dollar fine over the price-fixing , which prosecutor say have cost client of both firm 400 million dollar .
Christie 's be not prosecute in the United States after its management agree to testify against Sotheby 's and provide document need to prove fraudulent intent .
together , Sotheby 's and Christie 's control more than 90 percent of the fine art and antique market .
Sotheby 's say it would record the 20-million-dollar settlement as a special charge for 2002 .
it would be fund in two payment of 10 million dollar each upon preliminary and final court approval .
UNITED NATIONS , March 14 -lrb- afp -rrb- effort be to continue at the United Nations Friday to find a breakthrough in the diplomatic stalemate on Iraq , with Washington warn it could bypass the Security Council and go to war alone .
with marathon talk at the top world body fail late Thursday to reconcile french and russian opposition to us-british war plan , the United States up its military presence , deploy more missile-firing warship to the Red Sea .
six non-permanent member of the Security Council consider to be in the middle ground between the fiercely pro- and anti-war camp , be work on new proposal to break the deadlock , France 's ambassador to the UN say .
`` the six be now work on a paper and we will see the outcome of that consultation , maybe tomorrow -lrb- Friday -rrb- '' Jean-Marc de La Sabliere tell reporter .
Iraq be due to present a 30-page report on biological weapon it say it destroy in 1991 , accord to diplomatic source in Baghdad , who say a second batch of document on anthrax would follow in the next few day .
amid talk of delaying or even shelve a us-british resolution give iraqi President Saddam Hussein until Monday to disarm or face war , oil price in Asia pull back , share rise and the US dollar ease .
british effort to provide a way out of the diplomatic mire at the United Nations end without agreement late Thursday , but with London 's ambassador to the UN , Jeremy Greenstock , say he expect talk to go on into the weekend .
he US counterpart , John Negroponte , say : `` I can not say we be much farther along today than we be yesterday , '' after hour of talk on six british benchmark to test Iraq 's compliance with council demand .
the test be design to sway six uncommitted council member behind a draft resolution which would declare that Iraq have miss its last chance to disarm peacefully unless the council decide otherwise by Monday .
the two ally would not push for a vote Friday on the draft resolution , diplomat at the United Nations say , while US Secretary of State Colin Powell hint that Washington would consider not even put the text to a vote .
`` we be still talk to the member of the council with respect to coalesce around a position that would not draw a veto , but the option remain : go for a vote and see what member say , or not go for a vote , '' Powell say .
`` we will be examine they today , tomorrow and into the weekend , '' he say late Thursday .
diplomatic wrangling have centre around the french and russian refusal to put they name to any resolution allow the United States to unleash its military might against Iraq before weapon inspection have run they course .
France have provoke Washington 's ire in its steadfast insistence that it will veto any resolution pave the way for war , even reject the british proposal for concrete test before Baghdad have do so .
France 's threat to cast its veto be only make war more likely , british Foreign Secretary Jack Straw say .
`` unfortunately they appear to have make the decision not to enforce -lrb- UN resolution -rrb- 1441 , '' Straw tell Britain 's the Guardian newspaper .
`` that render it less likely that we get a peaceful outcome . ''
russian Deputy Foreign Minister Yury Fedotov say the US decision to drop demand for a Security Council vote this week on war with Iraq show the resolution have not win enough support .
he reject the british proposal , say : `` the british proposal on Iraq be not constructive and do not resolve the key problem , the prevention of a military scenario involve Baghdad , '' the Interfax news agency report .
he repeat that Moscow would not back a resolution that authorise a attack against Iraq : `` it be not necessary now to adopt any new resolution on Iraq , especially resolution which lead to war . ''
he comment be echo by the german ambassador to the UN , Gunter Pleuger , who say : `` there be no majority support for the british proposal . ''
in Germany , Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder say that weapon inspector have to be allow to continue they work .
`` together with we friend in France , with Russia , China and the majority of the security council we be confident the disarmament of Iraq can be achieve through peaceful means , '' Schroeder say .
the british-us proposal need nine vote to pass through the 15-member Security Council -- a feat look increasingly unlikely with France and Russia vow to veto the resolution and Syria , China and Germany all oppose .
the United States meanwhile deploy its b-2 stealth bomber to position closer to Iraq and order as many as 15 warship capable of firing tomahawk cruise missile to the Red Sea from the Mediterranean , US official say .
NEW YORK , March 19 -lrb- afp -rrb- Media tycoon Barry Diller on Wednesday quit as chief of Vivendi Universal Entertainment , the entertainment unit of french giant Vivendi Universal whose future appear up for grab .
in a statement , Diller -- who take on the `` provisional '' role at the top of Vivendi 's US entertainment operation in December -- say he USA interactive group will nonetheless remain a shareholder of Vivendi Universal Entertainment .
`` my executive role be never intend to be permanent , '' say Diller .
`` now that Vivendi Universal have begin a formal process in review option for its entertainment asset , it be appropriate to step aside from any direct management responsibility . ''
as part of the 11-billion-dollar sale of USA Interactive 's film and television operation to the french media company in December 2001 , USA Interactive receive 2.5 billion dollar in preferred share in Vivendi Universal Entertainment .
Diller , 60 , personally receive a 1.5 percent stake in the business and have be tout as a likely candidate to run Vivendi Universal 's entertainment unit in the United States if the troubled french media giant be break up .
in Paris , the french media group say parent company chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou will replace Diller as chairman and chief executive of US unit .
Vivendi , in a statement , say that Diller have , `` in full agreement with Vivendi Universal , '' announce that he be `` end he temporary assignment as CEO of Vivendi Universal Entertainment . ''
Vivendi Universal , the world 's second-largest media group after AOL Time Warner of the United States , have be digging out from under a mountain of debt since the removal of expansionist boss Jean-Marie Messier last July , largely through asset sale .
Vivendi Universal earlier this month post a record net loss of 23.3 billion euro -lrb- 25.6 billion dollar -rrb- for 2002 .
face with debt of 35 billion euro -lrb- 37 billion dollar -rrb- in June last year -- include 19 billion from the media and telecom division alone -- the sprawling conglomerate have set a target of reduce its debt by 16 billion euro by end-2004 .
speculation have be rife that troubled Vivendi have be weigh a spinoff or sale of its US film , television and theme park operation as part of its restructuring .
Press speculation have already suggest that Vivendi might decide to keep its Universal Music division , while either divest or invite third party to take a minority stake in the remain entertainment asset .
earlier this month , source tell Agence France Presse financial news unit AFX that Viacom be study a bid for Vivendi 's US entertainment asset place it as a serious rival squarely in the run against oil billionaire Marvin Davis who have bid 20 billion dollar for the operation .
while other media company like Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer , Liberty Media Corp , News Corp and General Electric Co 's NBC have be mention as potential bidder for the Vivendi operation , Viacom be one of the few media company with a balance sheet healthy enough to mount a bid .
CAIRO , March 20 -lrb- afp -rrb- ten of thousand of people take to the street across the Middle East Thursday , demonstrate against military strike on Iraq and call on Muslims to wage jihad against the United States and its ally .
Lebanon and the palestinian Authority issue fierce denunciation of the us-led attack , while the egyptian government daily Al-Ahram warn it mark `` the begin a era of US colonisation that will benefit only Israel '' .
protest against the action aim at topple iraqi President Saddam Hussein be hold in city across Libya , Egypt and Lebanon , as well as in Amman , Damascus and the Gaza Strip .
however , there be no report of protest against the war from the Gulf state , many of whom be host to US military personnel .
Saudi Arabia , however , express its `` deep concern '' and regret over the start of US military operation .
Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal speak of the `` kingdom 's hope for a quick halt in military action and for the return to peaceful effort '' , the state SPA news agency report .
in Riyadh 's first reaction to the start of the against , he also call for Iraq 's `` unity , internal security and territorial integrity '' to be preserve and reject military occupation .
lebanese President Emile Lahoud , meanwhile , be more forthright , strongly denounce Washington 's `` aggression '' and warn that it could have repercussion beyond the border of the pariah state .
`` we have warn against the marginalisation of the United Nations ... and we see this aggression today plunge the world into a tunnel where one can not see the end , '' he say in a statement .
`` for these reason , we judge that it be necessary that the force of peace and those who believe in right and justice take the necessary and rapid step to halt this dangerous slide into war against Iraq which will result in heavy human and material loss . ''
the palestinian Authority also condemn Thursday 's early morning missile strike on Iraq , and warn Israel not to exploit the conflict .
`` we Palestinians be against the war and we totally condemn this war in the Middle East .
a solution must be find to this problem through diplomatic means , with the international community , '' local authority minister Saeb Erakat say .
`` we be warn Israel not to exploit this war against Iraq to carry out more attack against the palestinian people in the Gaza Strip and destroy the palestinian Authority and the peace process , '' he say .
the radical palestinian movement Islamic Jihad warn that `` the war against Iraq be a war against the whole region '' , while Hamas issue a chill warning against those take part in the war against Iraq .
`` the aggression by the vile Americans and the war against Iraq signify a war against all Arabs and Muslims around the world , '' say Hamas senior official Abdul Aziz al-Rantissi .
the war `` show the impotence of all Arab state .
we call on all arab state to act immediately to defend Iraq and counter the US war , '' he say .
`` I do not think America will win this war , as we jihad -lrb- holy war -rrb- and we resistance will teach the Americans and British a lesson they will never forget , '' he say .
State radio in Syria accuse the United States and its ally of want to get they `` hand on Iraq 's oil and wealth and impose they hegemony on the world '' .
in the egyptian capital , 10 demonstrator and at least four policeman be injure in clash after several thousand demonstrator take to the street near the US and British embassy .
riot police intervene after the protestor , who include hundred of student from the American University in Cairo , rally on the city 's central Tahrir Square , close to both the university campus and the US embassy .
more than 1,000 people also gather at Cairo 's Al-Azhar Islamic University , where they burn a american flag and demand the expulsion of the ambassador of the United States , Britain , Spain and Israel .
demonstration also take place in the northern egyptian city of Alexandria , Tanta and Kafr el-Sheikh .
in Amman , three protestor be hospitalise after some 500 jordanian lawyer stage a sit-in at the main court house after be forcibly block by riot police from march towards the iraqi embassy to show they solidarity .
in Lebanon , hundred of student gather on the campus of the Arab University of Beirut and the American University of Beirut call for the assassination of US President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair .
South of the capital in Sidon , some 1,500 schoolboy denounce `` the Bush assassin '' and the `` silence of the Arab leader who sell out Iraq '' .
NEW YORK , March 23 -lrb- afp -rrb- some 70 people be arrest Saturday as demonstrator clash with police at the end of a major peace rally here , as at least 200,000 anti-war protester take to the street across the United States and Canada .
for the most part the march go off peacefully , but in New York a small group of protester be arrest after they refuse to go home at the end of they rally , police source say .
several police officer be treat for the effect of gas after the ensue clash -- a result , police say , of the demonstrator use self-defence device .
Organisers claim that some 250,000 people attend the rally , create a human column some three kilometre -lrb- 1.8 mile -rrb- long .
Police put the attandance at around 125,000 .
the city assign 2,000 police officer to the rally , include undercover officer who carry beeper-sized radiation detector and other counter-terrorism equipment .
though opinion poll have show public support for the war rise in the United States , opposition to military intervention in Iraq have give rise to a impassioned campaign .
among the sea of banner make its way up Broadway be many sign poke fun at President George W. Bush .
`` somewhere in Texas , a village be miss a idiot , '' say one sign .
`` Iraq war : a unelected extremist vs. a unelected extremist , '' and `` take the toy away from junior . ''
one woman march topless with the word `` shock and awe '' daub across she back in red ink , a reference to the bombing campaign unleash Friday on Baghdad .
Liana Owen drive 10 hour from Pennsylvania to attend the rally in Manhattan with she parent .
`` it be important that people all over the world know that we do not believe in the war , '' she say .
several thousand demonstrator also gather outside the White House in Washington , accompany by a major security presence .
`` they can say they be ` smart bomb , ' but smart bomb be not able to distinguish between military and human target , '' Abigail Fletcher , a marcher from Florida , say outside the president 's residence .
some of the slogan seek to rebut war supporter ' argument that the protest be unpatriotic .
`` we support we troops -- bring they home ! ''
read one .
a former serviceman , Michael Schmidt of Peoria , Illinois , say : `` it be up to I to help the US -- from here . ''
other be more blunt , with one banner reading `` shock , awe -- and disgust . ''
one group , Lesbians against Boys Invading anything , carry sign say `` pre-emptive war be terrorism , '' `` this be not the usa I love , '' and `` where will the bomb fall next ? ''
up to 20,000 protester throng the plaza and street of San Francisco , where more than 1,600 people be arrest in the past two day in a civil disobedience campaign .
between 2,500 and 3,000 people picket the CNN studio in Los Angeles while other at the Atlanta headquarters protest the cable network 's coverage of the war for be bias toward the United States .
`` they make this look like a John Wayne movie , '' say protester Elvis Woods .
`` you watch CNN and all you get be explosion and video of tank and gun .
nobody question whether this be right or not . ''
counter-demonstration in support of the us-led invasion of Iraq take place in some city , with some 2,500 people turn out in Chicago .
Flying the US flag and recite the pledge of allegiance , they outnumber they anti-war counterpart by three to one .
passion run deep on both side , but a line of police in riot gear keep they apart .
carry sign that say , `` it be the oil , stupid , '' and `` real man do not bomb child , '' the anti-war protester wave blue Earth flag .
`` I agree Saddam be crazy and need to go , but it be not we place to do it , '' say Ian Wisniewski , 14 , who have a fake bullet hole paint on he forehead .
`` it be crazy that we be bombing Iraq .
it sicken I . ''
a few yard away , Claire Tortorello , 54 , point and yell at the protester across the plaza .
hold a frame picture of she son , serve with the Army 's 3rd Infantry Division in Iraq , she say she do not know whether he be dead or alive .
`` I be here to support he and other who be fight for they country .
they would not be here if it be not for the freedom that other fight for , '' she say .
anti-war protest take place around the world Saturday after the start of the bombing of Baghdad .
hundred of thousand of demonstrator take to the street in Britain , Spain and Italy , whose government approve of the war .
in Montreal , `` stop the War , '' a coalition of more than 190 group , say as many as 200,000 people turn out , though police refuse to give a figure .
protester also gather in they thousand in Halifax , Calgary , Edmonton and Vancouver .
organizer of the civil disobedience campaign promise to block intersection and bridge , shackle themselves to lamppost and create human cordon to snarl traffic , as long as the war continue .
some 3,000 people have be arrest since the disobedience campaign begin last week .
JAKARTA , March 27 -lrb- afp -rrb- Indonesia will delay the execution of six convict include a indian on death row after five of they appeal to the Supreme Court for a second review , prosecutor say Thursday .
`` if we execute they now we can not bring they to life again should they appeal for a review be grant , '' say Antasari Azhar , spokesman for the attorney general 's office .
the Supreme Court reject earlier appeal for a case review from five of the convict .
the sixth offender have only make one appeal for a review .
President Megawati Sukarnoputri have refuse clemency for the six and ask for a speedy execution .
five of they be Indonesians convict of murder while the other be a indian drug offender , Ayodhya Prasad Chaubey .
`` we be talk about someone 's life or death so we have to be very careful , '' Azhar say .
a convict can file a case review or appeal for presidential clemency only after the Supreme Court uphold a sentence impose by a lower court .
apart from those convict of murder , 16 people be on death row for drug trafficking -- 11 foreigner , four Indonesians and a dutch citizen of chinese-indonesian origin .
indonesian court have increasingly hand out severe sentence , include death , for drug smuggler .
Narcotics abuse be a increasingly serious problem in the country .
Amnesty International have appeal to Indonesia to spare the life of convict drug offender and other , say there be no proof the death penalty deter would-be trafficker more effectively than other punishment .
amnesty oppose the death penalty for any crime .
use of the death penalty be rare in Indonesia , where the last execution be carry out in May 2001 of two man convict of a murder in 1989 .
it be the first execution for five year .
a police firing squad enforce the penalty .
WASHINGTON , March 27 -lrb- afp -rrb- thousand of fresh US troops head for Iraq Thursday as British Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush discuss the effort to oust Saddam Hussein , which some senior US military official warn could last month .
about 1,000 soldier from the US Army 's 173rd Airborne brigade parachute into a airfield in a kurdish-controlled area of northern Iraq , establish a base through which to bring in more troops and tank , Pentagon official say .
and some 12,000 soldier from the US Army 's 4th Infantry Division , which be suppose to have go into northern Iraq through Turkey , begin fly out of Fort Hood , Texas , Thursday to the region , a military fort spokeswoman tell afp .
the soldier be to meet up with ship transport they equipment , which be arrive in Kuwait from the Mediterranean , where it have be idle for week on navy ship await Turkey 's decision .
the war in Iraq could last month and require considerable US military reinforcement to assure a victory , the Washington Post report Thursday , quote senior US military official .
sandstorm , dangerously long supply line and a recalcitrant enemy `` have lead to a broad reassessment by some top general of US military expectation and timeline , '' the Post report .
`` tell I how this end , '' one senior officer ask the post .
most US army commander believe it be critical to pause the breakneck advance towards Baghdad to secure the supply line and make sure weapon be operable and troops resupply after day of powerful sandstorm and damage inflict by iraqi attack , the Post report .
the Post also quote Central Intelligence Agency and Pentagon intelligence analyst complain that Bush official largely ignore they warning that iraqi irregular force would use guerrilla tactic and offer significant resistance .
publicly US official have insist that the war be go accord to plan , and the most advanced US force be currently some 100 kilometer -lrb- 60 mile -rrb- outside of Baghdad .
US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld dismiss worry that there be insufficient force in the Gulf region if the battle for Baghdad go wrong .
after briefing US senator on the war , Rumsfeld tell reporter that the number of force `` have be increase and it will continue to do so until it be finish . ''
meanwhile Blair arrive in Washington late Wednesday for two day of talk with Bush at the Camp David presidential retreat .
talk be to focus on how to run a post-saddam Iraq , with Washington resist a large United Nations role .
Blair face a uphill battle to win Bush over to give the UN oversight of a post-saddam administration , as Washington official be still angry at Germany , Russia , and especially France , over the failure to secure UN Security Council approval for military action .
Blair and Bush be to hold a joint press conference at 1600 GMT Thursday .
Britain have deploy some 45,000 troops to fight with the more than 250,000 US soldier line up against iraqi troops .
Bush give a new , stronger warning that the war could become draw out .
`` as they approach Baghdad , we fight unit be face the most desperate element of a doomed regime , '' Bush tell cheer military personnel Wednesday at the Florida headquarters of Central command , which be run the campaign .
`` we can not predict the final day of the iraqi regime , but I can assure you -- and I assure the long-suffering people of Iraq -- there will be a day of reckon for the iraqi regime , and that day be draw near , '' he say .
at the last minute , Bush withdraw a phrase in he speech say the campaign be `` ahead of schedule . ''
a senior administration official say the president have decide to be cautious .
Bush pointedly pay tribute to the 48-nation `` coalition of the willing '' -- particularly Britain -- that be publicly back the campaign .
separately , US Secretary of State Colin Powell emphasize US determination to pursue the military campaign despite the diplomatic pressure Washington face at the United Nations .
`` we be interested in conclude this conflict , not have a pause right now or stop right now , but conclude this as quickly as possible so we can get on with the rebuilding of Iraq and put in place a better system of governance , '' Powell say in a interview with the Al-Jazeera Arab television network .
Powell , the most moderate member of the Bush cabinet , say he fully agree with the president 's policy on Iraq and have no plan to leave .
`` personally , I be very much in sync with the president and he value my service , '' he say in a interview with National Public Radio .
meanwhile the Wall Street Journal report that several british and US oil company have quietly advise US and british force on how oil field operate so they could safeguard the field in Iraq .
the company , include Britain 's BP PLC and the texas-based Boots and Coots International Well Control Inc. , be not pay for they consultation , but ally military engineer say they advice be critical .
bur-ch / iraq-war-us
TOKYO , March 30 -lrb- afp -rrb- some 2,500 mainly university student form a human chain in japanese character spell out `` No War '' in Osaka on Sunday to protest against the ongoing us-led military campaign in Iraq .
`` we can not forgive this war , '' Miyako Fuji , 20 , one of the rally 's organiser tell Jiji news agency .
`` I want to join together the feeling of each of we as individual who oppose the war . ''
protester , who exceed the 2,000 expect to show up at the park at Osaka Castle in the city 's downtown neighbourhood , carry placard that read `` stop war '' and `` Love and Peace '' while form the human chain after 3:00 pm -lrb- 0600 GMT -rrb- , Jiji say .
the protest follow a string of other involve ten of thousand of peace activist across Japan since January .
accord to a poll by Kyodo news agency release Saturday , 78 of 100 people survey oppose the military action in Iraq .
a separate poll of 1,846 adult by the lead Yomiuri newspaper publish Tuesday show 64 percent feel Japan have `` no choice '' but to back the United States , with only 12 percent say Japan have `` every reason '' to back the war .
LONDON , April 1 -lrb- afp -rrb- british Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown on Tuesday name the current head of the country 's energy regulator as the new chairman of finance watchdog the Financial Services Authority -lrb- FSA -rrb- .
former senior banker Callum McCarthy begin what be one of the most important job in London 's financial world in September , when incumbent Howard Davies step down .
Davies be leave to become chairman of the London School of Economics , one of the best-known part of the University of London .
Brown say McCarthy would bring to the FSA `` a unrivalled combination of experience of the public sector , experience as a senior practitioner in the financial service industry , and chairman of a highly successful regulator . ''
McCarthy currently head the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets , or Ofgem , which regulate Britain 's privatised energy industry .
as well as previously hold senior position at Barclays Bank , BZW and Kleinwort Benson , McCarthy be formerly a top civil servant at the Department of Trade and Industry .
under Davies 's watch , the FSA become Britain 's sole regulatory body for financial service in November 2001 , take on the various function of nine separate agency .
MOSCOW , April 13 -lrb- afp -rrb- russian President Vladimir Putin 's summit with the leader of Germany and France may have be a failure that prove there can be no long-term `` peace camp '' alliance follow the end of war in Iraq , government source be quote as say at the weekend .
`` senior government official , speak in the corridor of power in Moscow , have no illusion about any long-term perspective for the -lrb- russian-german-french -rrb- axis , '' the respect Izvestia daily report .
`` sooner or later Iraq will fall and Russia and the United Sates will resume normal relation , '' the senior Moscow official , who be report to be close to Putin , tell the paper .
`` the situation in Iraq do not mean that we intend to get into a argument with the United States . ''
the comment indicate that Russia 's nuanced position over the war in Iraq be become ever more scramble , with putin push to protect he bud friendship with US President George W. Bush in the face of strident opposition from the russian media and other top Kremlin official .
analyst have long argue that Putin be far keener to preserve friendly relation with the United States than the pro-european , anti-war camp embed in much of the russian media and the foreign and defense ministry .
Russia 's foreign minister express outrage at suggestion from a top Washington official last week that Moscow should forgive the eight billion dollar in soviet-era debt that Baghdad owe it , as a gesture of good will .
kommersant business daily join in , declare in a furious front-page headline : `` the United States be demand that Russia , France and Germany pay for the iraqi war . ''
and the popular Gazeta.ru news website storm : `` we should have expect this !
.
.
this be only the start of a massive US campaign -lrb- to decide Iraq 's future finances -rrb- . ''
yet Putin have be far more reserve .
he and he loyal finance minister suggest Friday that Moscow might be prepare to waiver some of the iraqi debt in return for better russia-us relation .
`` on the whole the proposal be understandable and legitimate , '' Putin say .
`` Russia have no objection to such a proposal . ''
putin conclude he two day of talk in Saint Petersburg with Jacques Chirac of France and German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder on Saturday still urge for a central role for the United Nations in a post-war revival of Iraq .
the call reflect the insistent demand make by the three leader before the us-british invasion of Iraq that UN approval be essential for any mission to topple iraqi President Saddam Hussein .
but the Saint Petersburg summit end without any formal declaration on Iraq .
and diplomat note that putin appear uncomfortable at be so closely associate with the anti-washington stance of Schroeder and Chirac amid he develop friendship with Bush .
Putin have even secretly invite british Prime Minister Tony Blair , Bush 's staunchest backer in the war on Iraq , to attend the pow-wow in Saint Petersburg 's Grand Hotel Europe , although diplomat say Blair turn the offer down .
it remain to be see how successful Putin 's overture to Washington will be in the face of the fervent internal hostility to the US war stance .
a senior lawmaker see as close to the Kremlin ridicule the United States Sunday for fail to find any weapon of mass destruction in Iraq .
`` we do not think that America win , '' say Dmitry Rogozin , the head of the lower house of parliament 's foreign affair committee , tell Rossia television .
`` where be those chemical weapon ? ''
he demand .
and Putin 's media aide , Sergei Yastrzhembsky , tell Kommersant Russia would not forgive the iraqi debt . ''
-lrb- Washington -rrb- should not be so generous at other people 's expense , '' he say .
BEIRUT , April 15 -lrb- afp -rrb- lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri submit he resignation Tuesday and it be accept by President Emile Lahoud , who ask he to stay on in a caretaker role , accord to a official statement .
Hariri submit he resignation during a 10-minute meeting with the head of state at the Baabda presidential palace , outside the capital .
the statement do not give any reason for the move , but say Lahoud would begin consultation Wednesday aim at the formation of a new government .
Hariri have head the country 's government for nine of the past 11 year , and highly place governmental source say he would probably stay on in the job .
the current government be form in October 2000 .
under the power-sharing arrangement reach follow the end of Lebanon 's 15-year civil war in 1990 , the prime ministerial post be always hold by a Sunni muslim and the presidency by a Maronite Christian .
Married for the second time , Hariri have five child .
a businessman whose fortune be estimate at 10 billion dollar , he have interest in banking , real estate , oil and manufacturing .
he also own a television and a radio station and a newspaper .
GUWAHATI , India , April 17 -lrb- afp -rrb- at least three member of a family in Indias northeastern state of Tripura be hack to death by a tribal mob for allegedly practice witchcraft , police say Thursday .
a spokesman say a group of 25 to 30 armed man Wednesday attack a house belong to a village quack doctor in Tultuli , 60 kilometer -lrb- 38 mile -rrb- south of tripuras state capital Agartala .
`` the mob drag out three member of a family and -lrb- kill -rrb- they with machete and spear before flee the area , '' the spokesman say by telephone from Agartala .
the dead include the quack doctor , 55-year-old Nityalila Naotia , he teenaged son and another member of the family , whom he do not identify .
`` it be believe Naotia be a practice sorcerer and through he black magic he have cast evil spell on villager , prompt a group within the village to eliminate they , '' the spokesman say .
police have arrest four people in connection with the killing .
superstitious belief , black magic and demonology be integral to the tribal custom in part of Tripura and other northeast indian state .
many tribe practice faith believe to be a mix of black magic and superstition .
MOSCOW , April 17 -lrb- afp -rrb- silence be golden -- especially when you hand be weak -- top Moscow policy analyst say in a assessment of the fallout from Russia 's vocal opposition to what turn out to be a swift us-led campaign in Iraq .
several top diplomacy expert tell a kremlin-run forum that country like China and India that say little about the conflict before its March 20 launch be already reap the benefit .
some suggest that Russian President Vladimir Putin will now be scramble to contain the damage to he once-budding friendship with US President George W. Bush because he be poorly advise by he intelligence and defense aide .
one analyst say China -- which like Russia and France wield a UN security Council veto but never threaten to use it to prevent the war -- recently win its role as chief mediator between the United States and North Korea because other regional power ' confidence in Russia fall as a result of its iraqi diplomacy .
`` we be lose we position in Asia because ... this failure of a strategic triangle that -lrb- Foreign Minister Igor -rrb- Ivanov invent with Germany and France , '' fume Andrei Piontkovsky of Moscow 's Center of Strategic Studies .
negotiation between Washington and Pyongyang on they nuclear dispute have be set for April 23 in Bejing and be widely see here as a blow to Moscow effort to stamp authority on the region by organize such a meeting .
meanwhile the european `` peace camp '' troika find itself in tricky diplomatic isolation from Washington .
French President Jacques Chirac receive only a reserved response when he try to mend fence by place a telephone call Tuesday to Bush .
meanwhile german Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder have not speak to Bush since several week before the start of the war .
but not everyone here agree that Moscow 's diplomatic relation with Washington have suffer as badly .
most agree that russian diplomacy miscalculate and urge putin to quickly reassess the quality of he adviser .
`` we analysis of foreign policy be lack and often revert to Cold War stereotype , '' say former deputy foreign minister Anatoly Adamishin .
`` we be so proud of form a antiwar bloc with France and Germany -- but nation have not be form such bloc for at least 12 year and someone in Moscow should have understand that it be impossible to avert this war . ''
`` we main goal now be to make sure that we relation with the United States do not suffer further -- and I think this be possible . ''
US diplomat have hint in recent week that Washington 's anger with european resistance to the campaign be focus more on Paris -- and to a lesser extent Berlin -- than it be with Moscow .
Putin last speak to Bush on April 5 at the US president 's own initiative .
they be schedule to meet next in the russian leader 's native city of Saint Petersburg in late May .
`` we lose nothing and win nothing -- this be not we war , '' say liberal lawmaker Irina Khakamada of the Union of Rightist Forces .
`` we show the Americans that we would not give up on we position in Iraq cheaply and we do not .
we should continue stick to we principle . ''
Khakamada argue that the United States would also need Russia 's help `` to make the new iraqi government seem legitimate . ''
most analyst link Russia 's opposition to a war in Iraq to fear that it will lose oil contract that be seal with the now-toppled regime of Saddam Hussein .
the floodgate of iraqi oil be also now likely to open to world market and hurt Russia 's budget revenue -- which be heavily reliant on revenue from its own energy export .
but few at the Kremlin forum suggest that Putin 's own standing among voter will be hurt by Russia 's apparent diplomacy failure .
Putin will face re-election in March 2004 and analyst note that the war -- while oppose by most Russians -- be never turn by the Kremlin into a matter of national security .
`` I do not think that this will affect the election unless Russia 's failure in Iraq be present as a issue of national security -- and have not be yet , '' say Viktor Kuvaldin of a research center fund by former soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev .
KUALA LUMPUR , April 18 -lrb- afp -rrb- Malaysia 's Appeal Court Friday refuse to overturn the conviction and nine-year jail sentence impose on ex-deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim for sodomy .
Anwar , 56 , who this week complete four year in prison on a corruption charge , now face a earliest possible release date of April 14 , 2009 if he be give one third remission of he sentence for good behaviour .
the former heir-apparent to Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad , who say he be frame for political reason , tell reporter after he appeal be reject : `` you must remember its pre-selected judge , most junior of the court of appeal , and its all script .
`` what do you expect ? ''
Mahathir 's sack of the charismatic and popular Anwar in September 1998 rock malaysian politics , with thousand of people take to the street to demonstrate they support for he .
within week he be arrest and charge with sodomise a official driver several year previously and with abuse he power to cover up the offence .
the conduct of the trial be widely criticise internationally and the United States still list Anwar as a political prisoner .
Anwar be tell Monday that he have be grant a standard one-third remission of a six-year corruption sentence for good behaviour , and immediately begin to serve the nine-year sentence for sodomy .
LOS ANGELES , April 18 -lrb- afp -rrb- best-selling novelist and `` jurassic park '' creator Michael Crichton have agree to pay he fourth wife 31 million dollar as part of they divorce settlement , court document show Friday .
Crichton , 60 , be one of the world 's wealthiest author , and have have 12 of he novel make into major Hollywood movie .
the writer will retain the rights to he book and film , although he have agree to split a raft of other possession with Anne Marie , he wife of 13 year , accord to document file in Los Angeles Superior Court .
Anne-Marie will get the couple 's 19-room home in New York state , which be on the market last year for 21.5 million dollar , as well as they fine art collection .
Crichton , a Harvard Medical School graduate , will keep a home in Hawaii and four car , while the couple , who also each have home in Los Angeles , will share custody of they 15-year-old daughter , Taylor .
before the divorce , Crichton 's fortune be estimate at 65 million dollar , build on such hit novel as `` the Andromeda Strain , '' `` the great american Train Robbery '' and `` Westworld '' and he hit television series `` er . ''
accord to one report , he receive 3.5 million dollar for the film rights to he latest book , `` Prey , '' and have a 30-million-dollar , two-book deal with publisher Harper Collins .
Anne-Marie sue Crichton for divorce in September after they marriage break down .
in December , Chinese archaeologist name a new species of dinosaur after the `` jurassic park '' author .
SEOUL , April 25 -lrb- afp -rrb- US allegation that North Korea admit to possess nuclear weapon trigger alarm across Asia Friday and prompt appeal for calm from world capital .
the admission , accord to US source , come during three-day talk in Beijing which conclude Friday , the first meeting between US and north korean official since the nuclear crisis erupt six month ago .
China express hope that both side would keep the dialogue alive while official in Moscow and London call for patience in resolve the complex impasse .
South Korea and Japan be cautious , with Seoul Foreign Minister Yoon Young-Kwan say if the North Koreans be tell the truth , it would represent a `` major '' threat to peace in Northeast Asia .
US source with authoritative knowledge of the Beijing meeting say the head of the north korean delegation Li Gun have confirm to US envoy James Kelly that the stalinist state have develop nuclear weapon and hint it may sell or use they , depend on US action .
`` they say what we always know , that they do have weapon , '' one US source say .
`` that do not shock we , we have be say it .
now they have say it . ''
Li also tell Kelly that North Korea have go ahead with reprocess 8,000 spend fuel rod at its Yongbyon plant , which could produce enough weapon grade plutonium for several more nuclear bomb , say the source who request anonymity .
a angry US President George W. Bush accuse Pyongyang of revert to blackmail follow the nuclear admission and North Korea fire back with a charge that Washington have reject a `` bold '' plan to resolve the six-month-old impasse .
the outcome of the talk plunge financial market into freefall in Seoul with analyst say they see no sign of a recovery any time soon .
despite the leak detail about the meeting , US official publicly decline to confirm any of North Korea 's announcement , with US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher say comment make by North Koreans `` require careful analysis . ''
China , play host to the talk , try to put a positive spin on the talk which Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing say signify `` a good beginning . ''
`` we hope that all side can continue to make effort to peacefully resolve the korean nuclear issue , '' Li be quote by the official Xinhua news agency as say .
he say korean nuclear issue be `` very complicated and sensitive , '' but the key be to `` not mind the other side 's rhetoric , '' but `` pay attention to its action . ''
a top russian foreign ministry official call for patience and Britain 's Foreign Secretary Jack Straw echo the call in a BBC radio interview .
Kelly , the US assistant secretary for East Asia and Pacific Affairs , arrive in Seoul from Beijing Friday to brief Yoon , the foreign minister .
`` if it be true that North Korea possess nuclear weapon , this would be a major breach of peace on the korean peninsula as well as in Northeast Asia , '' say Yoon .
Kelly , who decline to talk to reporter here , travel to Tokyo Sunday for talk with japanese official .
he have make no public comment so far on the Beijing talk .
however US Secretary of State Colin Powell say the talk have feature `` strong view '' on all side and insist that the United States would not bow to blackmail , threat or `` bellicose statement . ''
North Korea , in its first official comment on the outcome of the talk , accuse Washington of rule out Pyongyang 's `` bold '' plan for peace while offer nothing new itself .
a north korean foreign ministry spokesman , quote by the official korean Central News Agency , make no reference to the report that North Korea have admit to possess nuclear weapon .
`` at the talk the DPRK -lrb- North Korea -rrb- set forth a new bold proposal to clear up bilateral concern of the DPRK and the US , and the party concern with the nuclear issue on the korean peninsula , at the same time , '' the unnamed official be quote as say .
`` the US , however , repeat its old assertion that the DPRK should ` scrap its nuclear program before dialogue ' without advance any new proposal at the talk . ''
the official do not disclose what North Korea 's bold plan be .
MULTAN , Pakistan , April 27 -lrb- afp -rrb- a pakistani court in central Punjab province have sentence a christian man to life imprisonment for a blasphemy conviction , police say Sunday .
Judge Shahid Rafiq , of the district court in the industrial city of Faisalabad , find Ranjha Masih guilty of defile koranic verse during a protest rally by the minority christian community in 1998 .
in a verdict hand down on Saturday , the judge also order Ranjha to pay a fine of 50,000 rupee -lrb- about 870 US dollar -rrb- , they say .
ranjha be accuse of tear down a billboard carry verse from the Koran in Faisalabad during a christian demonstration after the city 's bishop commit suicide over the 1985 blasphemy law .
Faisalabad 's Catholic Bishop John Joseph , who have be campaign against the law , shoot himself in the head outside a court in Sahiwal district when the judge convict Christian Ayub Masih under the law in 1998 .
Ayub Masih be charge in 1996 with blasphemy for allegedly defend british author Salman Rushdie , whose novel `` the satanic verse '' infuriate radical mulsim cleric who accuse the author of defame Islam .
the pakistani supreme court last year aquitt Ayub Masih , who have deny utter any word against Islam or the prophet Mohammad .
Blasphemy be punishable by death under the Pakistan Penal Code .
however , no blasphemy convict have ever be execute in the country .
christian rights activist campaigning against the law , introduce by late military dictator General Zia-ul Haq , say they be mainly use to persecute christian or to settle feud over land .
NKorea offer to scrap nuke , missile program but want big concession : US by Matthew Lee ATTENTION - UPDATES / / / WASHINGTON , April 28 -lrb- afp -rrb- - North Korea have offer to scrap its nuclear weapon and missile program , but only in return for `` considerable '' diplomatic , political and economic concession , the United States say Monday .
Secretary of State Colin Powell say the offer be make during three-way talk between US , north korean and chinese diplomat last week in Beijing .
at the same meeting Pyongyang confirm it have nuclear weapon , and threaten to prove it with a `` display . ''
`` the North Koreans acknowledge a number of thing that they be do and , in effect , say that these be now up for further discussion , '' he tell reporter at the State Department .
`` they do put forward a plan that would ultimately deal with they nuclear capability and they missile activity , but they , of course , expect something considerable in return , '' Powell say .
`` we be study that plan , we be examine it with we friend and ally , '' Powell say , add that talk be now underway with the south korean , japanese , russian and australian as well as other government .
`` it be useful to get it all out on the table and see where we go from here , '' he say , refer to the April 23 to 25 discussion in Beijing .
Powell give no indication as to whether Washington would accept the offer , and do not address what Pyongyang be demand in term of concesssion .
however other US official say the North Koreans have present a lengthy list of demand .
the demand include full normalization of tie with the United States , security guarantee and economic assistance that include oil and other energy consideration .
`` they have quite a list of thing , '' State Department spokesman Richard Boucher tell reporter .
ask specifically about normalization of relation and economic assistance , Boucher reply : `` I do not really quibble with that characterization of the list . ''
a senior State Department official say later that the list of demand be so extensive that it defy a `` concise description . ''
`` it basically list everything they have ever ask for , '' the official tell reporter on condition of anonymity , identify oil and energy supplies as demand .
although the north korean demand be be look at , Boucher repeat long-standing US policy that Washington would not be blackmail or otherwise threaten into buy Pyongyang off .
`` we have make clear we be not go to pay for elimination of the nuclear weapon program that never should have begin in the first place , '' he say .
Powell acknowledge that North Korea have hint it could prove it possess nuclear weapon with some sort of display during the Beijing talk , but maintain that the North Koreans have not use the word `` test '' or `` testing . ''
`` they say that it be the kind of capability that one can display in one way or another , '' he say .
the concession demand by Pyongyang be part of a `` bold '' proposal for address the nuclear situation on the korean peninsula that North Korea present in Beijing , official say .
south korean newspaper report earlier Monday that the North suggest that Pyongyang and Washington act simultaneously and equally to resolve the six-month-old nuclear crisis .
Boucher rule out simultaneous step by both side , stress that Washington would not consider such move until the `` verifiable and irreversible termination '' of the north 's nuclear program .
`` we -lrb- have -rrb- make clear that once North Korea do that , we could move on or move back to the comprehensive approach to US-North Korea relation that we have talk about before , '' he say .
South Korea 's Munhwa Ilbo newspaper and other quote unnamed south korean government source as say Pyongyang also urge Washington not to hinder its effort to establish and improve tie with Seoul and Tokyo .
the North 's ruling Workers Party newspaper , Rodong Sinmun , indicate Sunday that North Korea want economic and political `` reward '' from the United States in return for the elimination of its nuclear program .
Rodong call for a `` fair and equal '' footing in talk with the United States , blast Washington for insist that there would be `` no security of the system nor provision of reward '' even if Pyongyang give up its nuclear program .
it insist North Korea could do `` everything '' to defend itself if the United States `` legally guarantee no use of arm include nuke '' .
SEOUL , April 29 -lrb- afp -rrb- South Korea 's rule party be face a internal reformist call for dissolve itself to create a new group after a humiliating defeat at last week 's by-election , party official say Tuesday .
the ruling Millennium Democratic Party -lrb- mdp -rrb- , found by former president Kim Dae-Jung , have suffer decline popularity since President Roh Moo-Hyun take office in February .
a group of 18 reformist mdp lawmaker , mostly Roh 's confidant , demand late Wednesday that the party be `` constructively dissolve '' to create a new grouping , mdp official say .
but the established mdp leadership have oppose the sudden overhaul , they add .
reformist mdp member , however , vow to launch a preparatory committee next month and to make `` tangible progress '' in the process of forge a new party .
the internal dispute erupt after the mdp lose three parliamentary seat in Thursday 's by-election .
the opposition Grand National Party -lrb- GNP -rrb- take two of the National Assembly seat while a splinter reformist party get the third .
with the latest win , the GNP increase its majority in the 272-seat National Assembly to 153 seat against 101 for the mdp .
General election be due in April next year .
SYDNEY , April 30 -lrb- afp -rrb- the Daily planet Ltd , about to become the first brothel to list on the Australian Stock Exchange , plan to follow up its May Day launch by open a `` sex Disneyland '' here , the melbourne-based bordello announce Wednesday .
Chief executive Andrew Harris say the company be likely to abandon plan to acquire a hotel in Sydney 's Kings Cross red light district and acquire another property three time the size in a better location .
the Daily planet raise 3.5 million dollar -lrb- 2.2 million US -rrb- in its initial public offering with one of the new 600 shareholder acquire 1.0 million dollar worth of share .
renowned Hollywood madam Heidi Fleiss have be fly to Melbourne as guest of honour at Thursday 's market debut and , accord to Harris , have already play a key role in attract worldwide media attention to the event .
`` Heidi 's idea , she background , she knowledge have help we a great deal , '' he say .
`` the international novelty value with Heidi promote it have be massive -- these share can go anywhere . ''
but it have not be a easy road to the Australian Stock Exchange since the idea be first moot in 1994 .
`` the establishment do not want a brothel on the stock exchange , '' Harris say .
`` it be only because we be the biggest and the best that we could afford to do it .
`` we have fight every institution , every law firm ... it be cost we a fortune but now we be go on a massive expansion . ''
Harris say Sydney be a more attractive option for the sex Disneyland because its prostitution law be less restrictive than Melbourne 's .
`` Prostitution be completely decriminalise in Sydney and we be go to build a monster , '' he say .
`` we want a complete one-stop adult venue -- we want a complete adult venue with adult cinema , adult shop ... we have find much bigger premise in a much better location to create a sex Disneyland . ''
the company be also consider franchise the Daily planet within Australia with likely venue in Perth , Brisbane , Sydney 's western suburb and a second venue in Melbourne .
but the Daily planet be save its big plan for the United States where it be negotiate with two well-known US personality to join the board .
`` the United States be we major thrust , '' he say .
`` we want to build a little city call Metropolis with a 150-200 room hotel in Nevada . ''
LOS ANGELES , May 2 -lrb- afp -rrb- beleaguered french media group Vivendi Universal be in advanced negotiation to sell its theme park business to a US firm for around 1.5 billion dollar , the Los Angeles Times say Friday .
the report come as the indebted group say it be plan to sell off its US unit Vivendi Universal Entertainment and other asset , to focus on its telecom activity and its french cable television business .
the Times say Vivendi Universal be negotiate to sell its flagship theme park to New York investment firm Blackstone Group as a the first step toward dismantle its entertainment empire .
Vivendi Universal official in the United States be not immediately available for comment on Friday .
under the report plan , Blackstone Group would buy Vivendi 's theme park division , include Universal Studios Hollywood , Universal Orlando in Florida and Universal 's ownership interest in park in Spain and Japan , a source close to the negotiation tell the paper .
Blackstone already hold a 50 percent stake in the two park that make up Universal Orlando .
Vivendi earlier this week confirm month of press speculation that it plan to shed its entertainment asset by the end of the year , include its famed Universal movie studio and television asset .
Chief executive Jean-Rene Fourtou tell shareholder at the group 's annual general meeting Tuesday that the sale of Vivendi Universal Entertainment be a major goal for 2003 , and that negotiation be already under way .
however , Fourtou say he have not yet receive any firm offer for its giant US music business , Universal Music Group , and have take no final decision over its future .
the group , once a french utility company , need to reshape itself in order to slash its huge debt burden of around 18 billion dollar .
in 2002 , the group record a net loss of 23.3 billion euro -- the biggest ever in France -- on sale of 28.7 billion .
TEHRAN , May 4 -lrb- afp -rrb- the pro-reform director of Iran 's biggest-selling daily newspaper and official organ of Tehran 's municipality have step down follow the appointment of a conservative as the city 's new mayor , press report say Sunday .
Mohammad Atrianfar , who have head Hamshahri -lrb- Fellow Citizen -rrb- since it be found a decade ago and be a major backer of reformist President Mohammed Khatami , explain that he want to `` leave the new mayor with a free hand to choose a director '' of the paper .
Tehran have be govern by reformist since 1989 , but a conservative city council be elect in the February 28 municipal poll in a result attribute to a meager turnout amid grow public disillusionment with electoral politics .
Mahmud Ahmadi-Nejad , report to be a hardliner among conservative , be appoint mayor on Saturday and a change in Hamshahri 's management -- as well as its editorial line -- have be consider inevitable give the election result .
found by former mayor Gholamhossein Karbaschi , Hamshahri be quick to become Iran 's biggest-selling daily with a circulation of 450,000 .
it also build up healthy finances , carry score of page of private advertisement daily .
LONDON , May 8 -lrb- afp -rrb- british bank Barclays announce on Thursday it have agree to buy spanish rival Banco Zaragozano for 1.14 billion euro -lrb- 1.29 billion dollar -rrb- in cash .
`` the combination of the banking operation of Barclays Spain and Zaragozano will bring together two complementary business , create a nationwide distribution platform , treble the exist Barclays branch network and treble its exist customer base , '' Barclays say in a statement .
`` the acquisition of Banco Zaragozano build on we exist business create the sixth largest private sector banking group in Spain '' by asset , add Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto , chief executive of Barclays Spain .
`` it provide a platform for we to intensify and strengthen we competitive position in the spanish banking market , to the advantage of we customer , employee and shareholder . ''
the member of the board of Zaragozano have vote in favour of the transaction and have commit to sell they share to Barclays .
shareholder , include board member , own 54 percent of the ordinary share capital of Zaragozano have give irrevocable commitment to accept the offer .
the takeover , which be subject to approval by 75.01 percent of Zaragozano shareholder , be expect to be complete in July .
KUALA LUMPUR , May 8 -lrb- afp -rrb- Malaysia 's prison department have agree to allow jailed politician Anwar Ibrahim to attend he daughter 's wedding ceremony Friday after he bail hearing , he lawyer say Thursday .
Anwar will be take to the appeal court early Friday for a bail application pend he appeal to the country 's highest Federal Court againt he sodomy conviction , counsel Sankara Nair say .
prison authority have give the nod for Anwar to be take home later in the afternoon to marry he eldest daughter , Nurul Izzah , to engineer Raja Ahmad Sharir Iskandar in a traditional malay ceremony , he say .
but this be also conditional on police approval .
`` they have to get the green light from police .
we have give a assurance that there will not be a huge crowd at the house as the guest will only comprise of family member , '' he add .
the former deputy premier , sack by Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in 1998 , be sentence to a total 15 year in jail after be convict of corruption and sodomy .
he complete four year in prison on a corruption charge last month and be now serve a nine-year sodomy sentence .
he lose a appeal case on he sodomy sentence on April 18 .
another appeal be now pend in the Federal Court .
Anwar , 56 , say he be frame to prevent he from become a political threat to Mahathir , a allegation the government deny .
LONDON , May 9 -lrb- afp -rrb- a ground-breaking british budget cinema chain launch by the founder of low-cost airline easyJet announce Friday that it have finally acquire some film to show -- just a fortnight before it first open .
EasyCinema , which aim to sell ticket to its no-frills cinema for as little as 20 pence -lrb- 0.28 euro , 0.32 dollar -rrb- , have be lock in a bitter battle with film distributor over how it want to pay for title .
rather than splitting ticket sale with distributor , easycinema want to pay a fix fee for rights to show first-run movie over a fixed period , a proposal thus far reject by the film major .
EasyCinema founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou , who set up easyJet in 1995 and build it up into Europe 's biggest budget airline , have vow to take legal action against the distribution firm unless they allow he access .
the deadlock , and subsequent lack of any film , have be threaten to de-rail the debut of easycinema 's first outlet in Milton Keynes , just north of London , which be due to open its door on May 23 .
however the firm announce on Friday that it have reach a deal with the british arm of french distributor Pathe to show four release .
while not the latest Hollywood blockbuster , these include title such as as recently-released US martial art picture `` bulletproof monk '' and new british 1930s-based weepie `` the Heart of Me '' .
Haji-Ioannou profess himself `` delighted '' , but promise to push ahead in he battle with other distributor .
`` the situation with the top six UK distributor represent more than 90 percent of the market be still in a deadlock , '' he say .
`` I have instruct my lawyer to discuss this issue with the Office of Fair Trading . ''
EasyCinema aim to make its money by draw the public in with rock-bottom price during off-peak hour , when traditional cinema be often almost empty , also give the biggest discount to ticket buy long in advance .
to cut cost , all booking be do via the internet and the pared-down cinema have no popcorn stall and skeleton staff .
PARIS , May 14 -lrb- afp -rrb- israeli Foreign Minister Silvan shalom on Wednesday stress Qatar 's role in the Middle East peace process during talk with he Qatari counterpart Sheikh Hamad bin Jassem bin Jabr al-Thani in Paris .
shalom tell a joint press conference that the tiny Gulf state 's strong relationship with the recently appoint palestinian prime minister , Mahmud Abbas , could be a boost for peace .
`` we discuss the Middle East peace process .
over a hour of talk , we assert the will of both party -lrb- Israel and the Arab world -rrb- to do everything to return to the negotiating table , '' shalom say .
`` Qatar be a very important country on this issue .
I know the special relationship that the Qatari foreign minister have with Abu Mazen , '' he say , use Abbas 's alternative name .
the meeting be shalom 's first encounter with a Arab counterpart since he take office as Israel 's foreign minister on February 27 .
Qatar have economic link with Israel without maintain diplomatic relation , in the face of criticism from other arab country .
afterwards shalom be to fly on to London for talk with british Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw .
WASHINGTON , May 19 -lrb- afp -rrb- MCI , formerly WorldCom , and the Securities and Exchange Commission have reach a final agreement in the telecom giant 's 11-billion-dollar -lrb- 9.4-billion-euro -rrb- fraud case , the Wall Street Journal report Monday .
under term of the agreement , to be submit as early as Monday to a judge preside over the case , MCI would agree to pay the largest fine impose so far by the SEC on a company that be not a broker-dealer , the Journal say , cite source close to the matter .
the report do not give the amount of the fine , but say it would be `` exponentially larger '' than the historic 10 million dollar Xerox pay the SEC last year .
last month , the SEC slap fine total 1.4 billion dollar on 10 Wall Street brokerage to settle charge of conflict of interest between analyst and investor .
MCI and the SEC negotiate the agreement for month after a partial settlement in November under which MCI , formerly know as WorldCom , agree not to mislead investor about its finances , and to improve internal control , the Journal say .
the estimate value of the fraud have reach historic proportion , swell from the initially announce 3.5 million dollar to 11 million dollar as revelation of misconduct pile on , the report say .
separately , former WorldCom CEO Bernard Ebbers fail on April 29 to make a first repayment of 25 million dollar , plus interest , on a 400-million-dollar loan from MCI , the Journal say , cite SEC document .
because he be now in default MCI must now seize additional asset own by Ebbers , to secure the loan .
the company have already sell he georgia-based yacht building business for 15 million dollar , and be close to sell he ranch in british Colombia , which be expect to bring 60 to 70 million dollar , the Journal say .
BAGHDAD , May 19 -lrb- afp -rrb- shiite Muslims in Iraq Monday celebrate openly for the first time in decade prophet Mohammed 's birthday , as continue anarchy and chaos threaten to undermine US effort to rebuild the war-ravaged country .
meanwhile coalition official in Iraq insist plan for a iraqi government be still on track and Russia hint that a compromise could be imminent on a UN draft resolution to lift economic sanction on Iraq .
thousand of Iraq 's majority Shiite Muslims march to they main mosque in Baghdad to mark the birthday of Islam 's founder prophet Mohammed .
Shiites , who celebrate the birthday a week later than Sunni Muslims , be forbid to publicly mark the date under the regime of Saddam Hussein 's sunni-dominated regime .
the crowd fill the street lead to the Kazimiya mosque in the northeast of Baghdad and carry banner in the green color of Islam , call for good government .
`` no to injustice , '' `` no to occupation , '' `` no to Israel , '' `` yes to Islam , '' chant the demonstrator as speech begin from a platform .
Imam Mohammad al-fartussi , who last week threaten violence against `` sinful '' woman , alcohol vendor and cinema show `` indecent '' film , offer praise for the fall of Saddam and call Iraq `` the land of imam ... land of Islam . ''
the demonstration come as Iraq 's top US overseer Paul Bremer begin he second week on the job amid continue lawlessness in the country .
in he frenzied first seven day , the telegenic Bremer repeatedly promise to restore the law and order that crumble along with Saddam Hussein 's regime nearly six week ago .
but despite issue a host of tough decree , Bremer have fail to stem the rampant crime and street violence plague the country .
despite a security crackdown over the weekend in Baghdad and a announcement that some 7,000 policeman have return to they job since the end of the war , ordinary Iraqis still feel unsafe on the street with gunfire rife and police a near invisible presence .
in Baghdad , almost all the police station have be destroy or loot since US troops take control of the capital on April 9 .
only two have so far reopen , and they have no equipment whatsoever .
Baghdad 's top police job remain vacant .
and a trip to Baghdad 's looter market only bear witness to the fact that criminal be rule the roost in the post-saddam era .
pack with the pile of steal goods pick up during the frenzy of theft that follow the collapse of Saddam 's regime , the trader deal in everything from computer and stereo to furniture and weapon .
Jalal Jamil , a 45-year-old jewellery store owner , say the situation just keep get worse .
`` the Americans encourage people to steal because when looting happen right under they nose they do nothing , '' he say .
Bremer have also be criticize for back away from a earlier US timeline on form a government in Iraq , but us-led coalition official Monday insist government plan be still on track .
`` we want to have a iraqi voice in everything we do here but it would be wrong to do that precipitously , '' say a source at the Organisation of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance -lrb- ORHA -rrb- , which be administer post-war Iraq .
official from iraqi group that meet with Bremer last week have say that he back peddle on what they say be earlier pledge to give they a lead role in form a new interim government in the next few week .
`` we understand that they want to have as much power as possible but we tell they : ` you will not be directly elect , you will not have any direct experience of government , '' the source say . ''
` of course you will have input into the government but , since you be not directly elect , it would be a nonsense for you to have direct executive power , ' the source say .
`` the last thing we want be to leave a bunch of self-appointed oligarch in power , '' the source say .
the comment come on the same day that a prominent iraqi call for internationally-supervised election in Iraq .
Adnan Pachachi , a onetime foreign minister who return to Iraq on May 6 after 33 year in exile , tell the independent Az-Zaman daily that election should be hold under international supervision .
a interim government should create a election code and law to clear the way for direct election to a constituent assembly , that would draw up a constitution , Pachachi say .
a referendum on the constitution would lead to election for a new government , the 80-year-old Pachachi tell the daily .
on the diplomatic front , a top russian official say Monday that the UN security Council would likely vote this week on a us-british draft resolution to lift economic sanction place on Iraq in 1990 after its invasion of Kuwait and to place its oil riches under coalition control for at least a year .
`` a update text of the document may already be publish today and may be put to a vote this week , '' Deputy Foreign Minister Yury Fedotov tell ITAR-TASS news agency .
yet Fedotov do not say whether Russia would back the resolution , which diplomat have be revise since the United States , Britain and Spain first submit it more than a week ago .
Russia `` will vote depend on what the resolution text turn out to be , '' he say .
with billion of dollar in oil and debt interest in Iraq , Russia have be anxious to secure UN involvement before support the resolution .
Australia announce the creation Monday of a expert panel to help Iraq protect its rich cultural heritage and assist Interpol in recover looted ancient artefact .
MOSCOW , May 23 -lrb- afp -rrb- highlight close tie between Moscow and Beijing , Chinese President Hu Jintao Monday will make Russia he first foreign destination since become leader in a visit that could seal a major pipeline accord .
Hu , who be appoint to the top job in March , will meet he russian counterpart Vladimir Putin during he three-day state visit from May 26 to 28 .
he will then stay on for a regional summit before head to Saint Petersburg for celebration mark the 300th anniversary of the city 's founding .
`` this upcoming visit to Russia will be my first trip aboard since I become president of China .
I plan a thorough exchange of view with President Vladimir Putin on bilateral and important regional and international issue , '' Hu say in a interview with Russia 's Interfax news agency .
`` we discussion should strengthen political trust between the two side and mutually beneficial cooperation to raise russian-chinese relation to a new level , '' he add .
Putin , who enjoy a warm relationship with former chinese president Jiang Zeming , have make effort to nurture tie with hu and be the first world leader to go to Beijing to meet he in December when he be president-in-wait .
`` president Vladimir Putin and Hu Jintao have develop good personal contact , which will undoubtedly facilitate the promotion of the russian strategic partnership , '' Russia 's ambassador to China Igor Rogachyov say , quote by Interfax .
Russia have give a high priority to its relation with the United States despite a bitter disagreement over the us-led campaign to topple Saddam Hussein in Iraq .
but China remain a key russian ally , demonstrate by the fact that Hu will be the only foreign leader apart from US President George W. Bush to hold a summit with putin in the day surround the Saint Petersburg festivity .
leader of the two asian giant , accord to UFG financial brokerage , may ink a deal for the construction of a 2,400 kilometre -lrb- 1,500-mile -rrb- oil pipeline from eastern Siberia to the chinese city of Daqing , bring russian crude to energy-hungry China .
although the russian government be formally commit to build a extension of the pipeline that would supply Japan through the russian port of Nakhodka , expert believe that project be unlikely to see the light of day .
russian oil giant Yukos , whose output will be ship through the pipeline , have lobby furiously for the chinese route although the state pipeline monopoly Transneft argue that it be wrong to tie strategic russian energy resource to the whim of a single buyer .
`` single customer be always a danger .
however , the project make economic sense , '' comment Asia expert Dmitry Trenin , deputy director in Moscow of the Carnegie Center , a washington-based think tank .
the shorter chinese route , a 2,400-kilometre project , would cost around half the japanese pipeline , at 2.5 billion dollar -lrb- 2.15 billion euro -rrb- , and would need to transport just 20 million tonne a year to be economic .
China , whose booming economy have turn the country into a increasingly valuable economic partner for Russia , especially in its backward far eastern region , be also a major purchaser of russian weapon .
`` it be a very important relationship .
China be a very dynamic neighbour and a rise world power .
in many way it be far ahead of Russia , '' Trenin say .
the chinese president express the hope that bilateral trade could be raise from its current level of 12 billion dollar a year to 20 billion dollar .
analyst however caution against any attempt to turn the focus from economic cooperation to a broader strategic alliance , give that both side oppose the war in Iraq .
`` the Chinese be try to establish a rapport -lrb- between Hu and Putin -rrb- and this be in Russia 's interest .
however , this rapport should not serve the role of form a alliance to counter american dominance in the world , '' say Trenin .
`` a lot can be say for a amicable , neighbourly relationship between Moscow and Beijing and this be what the rapport should serve , '' he add .
WASHINGTON , May 27 -lrb- afp -rrb- US President George W. Bush tell canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien by telephone Monday that he look forward to see he at the upcome summit of major industrialize nation and Russia , the White House say Tuesday .
`` the two leader discuss the upcome g-8 meeting , us-canada -lrb- relation -rrb- and other international issue of concern , '' Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer say day before the June 1-3 summit , to be hold in France .
`` both say they look forward to see each other in Evian .
they also touch on Afghanistan , the situation in the democratic republic of Congo and on the global economy , '' say Fleischer .
amid a chill in relation over the war in Iraq , which Canada oppose , Bush indefinitely postpone a visit to Canada , instead choose to host australian prime Minster John Howard , who endorse that military campaign .
on Monday , Chretien tell reporter that he and Bush , who have not speak since late February , discuss a wide range of issue , include Iraq , the upcome summit of the group of eight industrial power and aid to Africa .
`` we have always be on good term .
we just disagree on one item , '' the canadian leader say .
NEW YORK , May 28 -lrb- afp -rrb- bankrupt energy giant Enron Corp be consider bring legal action against its own banker for give bad financial advice that help lead to its downfall , the Wall Street Journal report Wednesday .
the Houston energy company , which have be the target of a slew of investigation into alleged financial deception , file a pair of motion in federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan in April , say the daily .
it add that the move be part of a new push under the leadership of new chief executive officer Stephen Cooper to settle all the litigation involve Enron and its banker , shareholder and creditor .
Enron 's principal banker , include JP Morgan Chase and Citigroup , and along with numerous other Enron adviser , have already be sue by the company 's shareholder for allegedly help the company hide debt , and they face investigation from regulator over they involvement .
besides JP Morgan and Citigroup , the other Enron adviser include Bank of America , CSFB , Merrill Lynch , UBS , Deutsche Bank , Goldman Sachs , Lehman Brothers Holdings , ABN Amro , Barclays PLC , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce , WestLB AG and National Westminster Bank PLC , now part of Royal Bank of Scotland PLC. .
SINGAPORE , May 30 -lrb- afp -rrb- Singapore doctor will proceed with a unpredecented and risky operation to separate a pair of adult iranian twin join at the head , a hospital official say Friday .
the official , who ask not to be name , say the decision to go ahead with the operation be expect to be announce to the media on Monday by doctor and executive of Raffles Hospital , where the surgery will be carry out .
a team of specialist here have be conduct test on the female twin , Laleh and Ladan Bijani , since last year to determine if the operation can be successful .
the twin , both qualify lawyer age in they late 20 , be join at the head and the operation involve separate two individually function brain encase within a single bony structure , neurosurgeon Keith Goh say in December .
the pair fly to Singapore last year after hearing of the successful surgery on nepalese baby Ganga and Jamuna Shrestha , who be separate in a 97-hour operation at a hospital here .
attempt by Laleh and Ladan to have they operation elsewhere in the world be reject , with doctor in Germany say one or both of they could die .
Bush , Putin pal up after Iraq spat , but Iran row simmer by Stephen Collinson = -lrb- picture -rrb- = attention - add russian foreign minister , US official quote / / / SAINT PETERSBURG , June 1 -lrb- afp -rrb- - US President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin say Sunday they friendship be as strong as ever , lay aside a dispute over the Iraq war , but barely conceal a simmer row over Iran 's nuclear program .
after talk in Saint Petersburg 's grand Konstantinovsky Palace , they also warn North Korea to abandon its nuclear aspiration and sign document implement the Moscow Treaty , which mandate sharp cut in Cold War nuclear weapon stock .
swap smile , handshake and hug at a joint press appearance after talk link to Saint Petersburg 's 300th anniversary celebration , Bush and Putin set out to recreate the buddy atmosphere of they previous encounter .
`` we relation be stronger than the event that test it , '' say Putin , stress that despite diverge over Iraq , Russia and the United States have many common interest .
`` it be precisely these thing that enable I to call President Bush my friend , not only personally -- because I do like he a lot -- but as my counterpart and the president of a friendly nation , '' he say , earn a grin from Bush .
but both man observe a uneasy truce over US concern about russian aid to the nuclear program of Iran , whom Bush have label part of a `` axis of evil '' that also include Iraq and North Korea .
`` we be concern about Iran 's advanced nuclear program and urge Iran to comply in full with its obligation under the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , '' Bush say .
a senior US diplomat say Bushehr remain one of the biggest irritant in russia-us relation .
`` we think that it would be wise for Russia to go slow on the Bushehr project until the wider iranian nuclear program be more clearly understand , '' the US diplomat say after the informal summit talk .
`` we belief be that any proliferation , come from any source , should be stop . ''
the United States believe that what Iran say be a peaceful civilian nuclear program be a pretext for weapon manufacture .
Washington have be pressure Russia to stop build a nuclear power plant in Bushehr , southern Iran , which it have so far decline to do .
`` I appreciate Vladimir Putin 's understanding of the issue and he willingness to work with I and other to solve this potential problem , '' say Bush .
Putin insist that the two side be `` closer than they seem '' on the issue .
`` we do not need to be convince of the fact that there should no proliferation of weapon of mass destruction , '' he say .
but in a sharp remark that jolt the bonhomie , Putin warn Russia be not yet ready to sever nuclear tie with Iran .
`` we be against the pretext of use the nuclear weapon program in Iran as a lever in unfair business competition against we , '' he say .
Bush signal that Russia would not pay a similar price as France and Germany for oppose the us-led war in Iraq , invite he `` good friend '' putin to he weekend retreat outside Camp David in Washington in September .
Putin last visit Bush at he Texas ranch in November 2001 .
there be no word on the fate of billion of dollar of russian oil contract in Iraq , whose oil industry be now under the administration of the United States and Britain in line with latest UN resolution , which Russia be persuade to back .
but Putin note that `` russian company have a wealth of experience operating in Iraq and we intend to continue we cooperation in this area , with Iraq and in Iraq . ''
`` what the president -lrb- putin -rrb- mean be that at time , and we have come across this , there be unreasonable complaint about russian company ' cooperation with Iran , '' say Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov , point the finger clearly at the United States after the summit .
Bush and Putin also sign formal document put into effect a strategic arm reduction treaty that slash the two side ' nuclear weapon to a range of 1,700 to 2,200 nuclear warhead by the year 2012 .
Bush arrive in Saint Petersburg on Saturday , when he also briefly meet german Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder , whose opposition to the Iraq war have sour he relationship with Washington , at a dinner host by Putin .
Bush and Putin be schedule to leave straight after they talk for the group of eight summit of the largest industrialised nation in Evian , France .
NEW DELHI , June 7 -lrb- afp -rrb- a provincial chief from India 's main opposition Congress party have tell a election rally that India be suffer nature 's `` curse '' because both the president and prime minister be bachelor , a report say Saturday .
the Times of India newspaper quote Digvijay Singh , chief minister of the central indian state of Madhya Pradesh , as say that Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee and President Abdul Kalam have offend the hindu rain God Varuna by remain bachelor .
`` the country be be rule by a bachelor president and a unmarried prime minister .
this accord to the hindu shastras -lrb- book -rrb- be very inauspicious and that be the reason there be a widespread heatwave and drought , '' say Singh .
`` not just Prime Minister Vajpayee but President Kalam 's bachelor status be make the country dry , arid and infertile , '' he add .
the general secretary of Vajpayee 's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party , Pramod Mahajan , retort that Singh 's statement be `` beneath contempt . ''
India 's have be reel under a heatwave since mid-may which have kill 1,403 people .
the country 's western desert state of Rajasthan be also brace for its fifth straight year of drought .
MADISON , Wisconsin , June 16 -lrb- afp -rrb- the skeleton of a second baby have be find at a rural Wisconsin home where a 22-year-old woman 's dead infant be discover in a blue plastic container June 8 , official say Monday .
Kristin Scott , the mother , tell police she give birth secretly to both baby at she parent ' home in Byrds Creek , Richland County , one of unknown sex in April 2001 and the other , a fullterm girl , January 14 .
Police arrest she in Abilene , Texas , Saturday where she have move with a friend June 2 .
she be be hold on 50,000 dollar bail on a charge of first-degree reckless homicide and hide a corpse in the death of the infant bear in January .
Scott tell police she do not tend to the baby , and it die after 30 minute .
she say the baby have to die , accord to the criminal complaint .
the woman 's parent , William and Nancy Scott , find the decomposing body of the first baby in she closet after they go look for the source of a foul odor in they house .
Scott tell investigator she have move that body around before she move to Texas , sometimes in the closet at the Byrds Creek house , in the trunk of she car and in the closet of she apartment in Richland Center , the complaint say .
the sheriff release no other detail about the second baby .
LOS ANGELES , June 17 -lrb- afp -rrb- Supermodel Rachel Hunter on Tuesday file for divorce from she estrange rocker husband Rod Stewart , four year after the couple separate , court papers show .
Hunter , 34 , file for divorce in Los Angeles Superior Court , cite irreconcilable difference with the 58-year-old rock star to whom she have be marry for nearly 13 year .
how the asset of the couple -- they have a daughter , Renee , 11 , and a son , Liam , 8 -- will divide have yet to be decide , the document show .
the celebrity couple spit up very publicly four year ago and each have since have well-publicized relationship with other .
New Zealand-born Hunter reportedly have a fling with british pop star Robbie Williams , while british star Stewart have be much photograph with he report girlfriend , blond photographer Penny Lancaster .
Stewart have say that after two fail marriage , he feel it unrealistic to expect couple to commit to each other for life and suggest that the word `` til death do we part '' should be remove from the wedding ceremony .
Stewart 's 1979 marriage to Alana Hamilton last five year and produce two child .
the raspy-voiced singer who once date Britt Ekland be best know for hit song include `` Maggie May , '' `` do Ya think I be sexy , '' `` Tonight 's the night '' and `` Young Turks '' .
TOKYO , June 25 -lrb- afp -rrb- major US insurance group AIG be in the final stage of talk to take over General Electric 's japanese life insurance arm in a deal to create Japan 's sixth largest life insurer , report say Wednesday .
American International Group Inc. be likely to acquire all share in GE Edison Life Insurance by the end of September and also take over GE 's US car and fire insurance operation , the report say .
the total purchase cost be estimate at 300 billion yen -lrb- 2.5 billion dollar -rrb- , the business daily Nihon Keizai and news agency Jiji Press say .
GE Edison Life Insurance Co. Ltd. be a key japanese life insurance unit of US conglomerate General Electric Co. .
no official at the AIG Tokyo office or GE Edison be immediately available to comment on the report .
GE Edison would be AIG 's third life insurance unit in Japan follow Alico Japan and AIG Star life Insurance Co. .
the acquisition of GE Edison be expect to boost AIG 's annual life insurance premium revenue in Japan to about 1.1 trillion yen , rank it sixth in the japanese life insurance business .
GAZA CITY , June 30 -lrb- afp -rrb- palestinian security force return Monday to the position they hold in the Gaza Strip before the outbreak of the 33-month palestinian uprising as Israel remove all major checkpoint in the coastal territory , a palestinian security source say .
Police officer take up they position across the Gaza Strip , enjoy a freedom of movement they have not know since the intifada explode in September 2000 , the source say .
`` palestinian police have take over all the post and position they hold before September 28 , 2000 .
it be the first time they have have freedom of movement with car and weapon since the start of the intifada , '' the source say .
the move mark a huge step forward in carry out the us-backed Middle East `` roadmap '' , which aim to end the month of bloodshed and create a lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians .
follow the withdrawal of israeli troops from the northern town of Beit Hanoun late Sunday , police take up position there and in the neighbouring town of Beit Lahiya , he say .
they also deploy along the border with Israel .
the handover be a credibility test for the palestinian Authority , which must show it mean business when it come to rein in hardline group plot attack on the jewish state .
in another first in the almost three-year intifada , the israeli army allow Palestinians free circulation on the trans-gaza highway as troops abandon three major checkpoint across the coastal territory .
traffic be flow freely through the Netzarim junction , just south of Gaza City , the Kissufim junction by Deir al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip , and the Guest House junction just south of Deir al-Balah after the army withdraw .
the three military checkpoint on the highway , which run the entire length of the Gaza Strip , have transform the trip from north to south , ordinarily a 30-minute ride , into a grind two or three-hour ordeal and come to symbolise the horror of occupation .
`` Israel have implement most of the agreement except for a few issue , '' the source say , point out that Israel have still not remove two military observation post at the Kissufim junction and the Guest House junction .
although there be free movement along the trans-gaza highway , several other road remain temporarily close , he say .
the Karni-Netzarim road , which run east-to-west across the route , be still close as be the section of the highway pass close by Kfar Darom settlement , just south of the Guest House junction , he say , add both be likely to be open in the come week .
another road , lead from the southern border town of Rafah to Khan Yunis , would be open within 10 day , he say .
adress palestinian complaint , a israeli military source confirm troops have install a gate at the Netzarim cross and at the southern Guest House junction but say that they be only there for when jewish settler need to use the road .
a ban on palestinian man under the age of 35 be allow to move freely be still in force but that be expect to be lift later on Monday or early Tuesday .
the army also hand over control of Rafah border cross between the Gaza Strip and Egypt to the Palestinians , security source say .
six palestinian police officer be allow to return to the palestinian section of the border cross , which have be take over by israeli troops shortly after the start of the uprising .
under the 1993 Oslo accord , which grant a measure of autonomy to the Palestinians , the Rafah border cross with Egypt be to be jointly manage by both Israel and the Palestinians , although Israel have final control over the zone .
although the cross have , in principle , be open for movement between the two territory -- while be frequently close by israeli for reason rarely explain -- the palestinian section have be man by Israel for more than two year .
WASHINGTON -lrb- AP -rrb- with opposition hardening , the White House leave open the possibility Tuesday that it would not seek a United Nations vote on its war-making resolution if the measure be head for defeat .
`` the vote be desirable .
it be not necessary , '' presidential spokesman Ari Fleischer say .
the comment come as President George W. Bush and he adviser look beyond the diplomatic showdown and make plan for a public relation buildup to potential war .
one option under serious consideration be Bush give iraqi leader Saddam Hussein a final ultimatum , perhaps with a short-term deadline , in a major address next week , two senior White House official say .
the official , who speak on condition of anonymity , stress that a variety of option be on the table and they all depend on the outcome of a U.N. Security Council debate on the u.s.-backed war resolution .
the United States still do not have the nine vote need to win approval of the resolution , accord to supporter and opponent , and many undecided council member be look for a compromise .
even if he get the require vote , Bush need to avoid a veto by Russia , France or China who all favor continue inspection at least into July .
once the vote be resolve one way or another , Bush will intensify he case for war , official say , bar unforeseen event such as Saddam suddenly disarm or go into exile .
in addition to a possible address , they have discuss a presidential news conference and a Cabinet meeting as way for Bush to communicate he plan to the nation next week .
as those discussion be take place behind the scene , Fleischer tell reporter that Turkey would lose a propose $ 15 billion aid package unless it admit troops into the country for the Iraq conflict .
`` the particular package that we have be talk to they about be predicate on assistance and cooperation in any plan for the use of force against Iraq , '' Fleischer say .
until Tuesday , the spokesman have suggest part of the package would be available to Turkey regardless of whether 62,000 american troops be allow in the country .
White House official say they be turn up pressure on Turkey in hope that the parliament would grant the U.S. request on a second vote .
even so , official say future aid for Turkey would not be rule out , just the massive package under consideration now .
at the United Nations , Secretary-General Kofi Annan call Baghdad 's missile destruction `` a positive development , '' put he at odds with Bush 's assessment .
Russia 's Foreign Minister Igor Ivanov , harden Moscow 's opposition to quick military action , indicate Russia may use its veto against the u.s.-backed resolution .
both development further complicated Bush 's effort to win passage of the resolution , add significance to talk of what the administration would do if U.N. opposition cement against the U.S. position .
`` the president have make clear , that ... whether the United Nations vote or do not vote , that we will disarm Saddam Hussein with a coalition of the willing , '' Fleischer say .
`` we be proceed with all the plan for the vote . ''
`` now , if you be ask I if all of a sudden support around the world crumble and there be absolutely no one for it , I can not predict with metaphysical certitude every eventuality , '' Fleischer say .
U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte be ask whether the United States would withdraw the resolution if it do not have the vote to pass it .
`` we have not cross that bridge , '' he say .
`` we believe that support should be there .
we be not face that kind of situation but we will cross the bridge when we come to it . ''
afterward , he and other White House official say the remark do not signal a lack of confidence in the resolution 's prospects .
BELGRADE , Serbia-Montenegro -lrb- AP -rrb- Slobodan Milosevic 's wife will go on trial next week on charge of mismanage state property during the former president 's rule , a court say Thursday .
Mirjana Markovic , the power behind the scene during Milosevic 's 13-year reign , be accuse of illegally provide they grandson 's nanny with a state-owned luxury apartment in Belgrade in 2000 .
the Belgrade district court say that Markovic will be try along with 10 other milosevic-era official who face similar charge of `` inappropriate use of state property '' that carry a sentence of up to five year in jail .
the trial will start on March 13 , the court say .
Milosevic and he wife wield enormous power in Yugoslavia for more than a decade before he be sweep out of power after a popular revolt in October 2000 .
the post-milosevic government later extradite he to the U.N. war crime tribunal in the Hague , the Netherlands .
since then , many of Milosevic 's political and business ally as well as he two child have be accuse of crime .
Markovic , the leader of the neo-communist Yugoslav leave party , lose she parliamentary immunity from prosecution after she fail to become a deputy in the parliament of Serbia and Montenegro , the country that last month succeed Yugoslavia .
BAGHDAD , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- embolden by the latest weapon inspector ' report , Iraq on Saturday call on the United Nations to remove crippling sanction and to ban weapon of mass destruction in the entire Middle East _ and eventually in the United States .
Iraq resume destroy ban Al Samoud 2 missile under U.N. supervision Saturday after take a day off , crush six more in a process that chief inspector Hans Blix call a `` substantial measure of disarmament . ''
in the past week , Iraq have destroy 40 of its 100 Al Samoud 2 missile , prohibit by the United Nations because some test indicate they could fly farther than 150 kilometer -lrb- 93 mile -rrb- .
it also have be destroy equipment use to make they .
report to the Security Council on Friday by Blix and chief nuclear inspector Mohammed ElBaradei praise Iraq 's recent compliance .
but inspector also question Iraq 's motivation , as it begin to give the inspector what they want only when the threat of war become immediate .
U.S. President George W. Bush say the report indicate that only a war will make Iraq disarm .
`` unfortunately , it be clear that Saddam Hussein be still violate the demand of the United Nations by refuse to disarm , '' he tell Americans in a radio address Saturday .
Iraq , however , take the report as a endorsement of its work and argue not only that war plan should be cancel , but that sanction impose on it by the Security Council for its 1990 invasion of Kuwait should be remove .
`` we demand that the Security Council and the world decide on ... the lifting of sanction on Iraq in a comprehensive and complete way , '' say a spokesman for a meeting Saturday of Saddam and top-level official , quote by official iraqi news media .
the unidentified spokesman claim the weapon inspector have verify Iraq have rid itself of weapon of mass destruction _ something the inspector say would take month to do _ and appeal for a ban on such weapon to be extend beyond Iraq : to Israel , and eventually to the United States .
the spokesman , report on the meeting , say Iraq call on the Security Council `` to rid the Middle East of weapon of mass destruction since Iraq have become free of they . ''
`` at the front of those that must be rid of these weapon be the Zionist entity , '' he say in a reference to Israel , add that the order should `` move on after this region to America . ''
the newspaper Babil , a popular daily own by Saddam 's son Odai , also say Saturday that the report of Blix and ElBaradei be enough to suspend the sanction , which be to be remove when the United Nations verify that Iraq have no weapon of mass destruction or the means to make they .
in a front-page editorial , Babil say the report should push Security Council member `` to think seriously about issue a resolution lift the sanction impose on Iraq , since it be prove that we do not possess weapon of mass destruction . ''
Saddam have long claim Iraq destroy all its weapon of mass destruction .
the United States and Britain claim he be lie , and have assemble a quarter-million troops around Iraq for a possible invasion .
despite Iraq 's demand of the Security Council , diplomat be work hard on very different proposal : a u.s.-led plan for disarmament or war by March 17 , and a rival french plan for a emergency summit of Security Council member to come up with a compromise .
Bush and top adviser plan to lobby ally by telephone through the weekend and up until next week 's plan vote on the ultimatum .
French President Jacques Chirac talk to head of state in a effort to drum up support for he plan , he office say .
inspector ' spokesman Hiro Ueki say iraqi worker crush six Al Samoud 2 missile Saturday at the al-taji military complex north of Baghdad , under the supervision of weapon inspector .
three of the missile have warhead and three do not , apparently because they have not be deploy .
inspector also supervise the destruction of tool and `` special equipment use to produce the Al Samoud 2 engine '' at the Al Samoud factory , he say , and another group of inspector verify the emptying of Al Samoud 2 warhead at the qa qa complex just south of Baghdad .
Odai al-Taie , a senior Information Ministry official , say the worker crush the missile take Friday off because they have work on Tuesday , the muslim new year .
Ueki describe Friday as a `` planning day '' for team work on missile destruction .
Ueki say a iraqi chemical scientist grant a interview to weapon inspector , bring to eight the number of scientist who have give interview since Feb. 28 , when Iraq begin urge they to talk .
since the same date , four scientist have refuse .
interview with nuclear scientist have be conduct more frequently because the nuclear inspector do not mind the scientist tape record the interview , a sticking point for the chemical and biological team .
inspector also return to a former helicopter airfield where Iraq bury bomb it say be arm with biological weapon in 1991 .
Ueki say inspector there take sample from the remainder of stainless steel container Iraq say it use to transport biological agent .
HONG KONG -lrb- AP -rrb- the Hong Kong Jockey Club be in talk about buy out the horse racing club in neighbor Macau , a newspaper report Tuesday .
the South China morning post quote Hong Kong Jockey Club Chief Executive Lawrence Wong as say the discussion be underway , but no price be report .
the Hong Kong club be a charitable entity , while the Macau Jockey Club be a for-profit concern control by gamble tycoon Stanley Ho .
Hong Kong anger Macau 's gaming industry last year when it ban gambler in Hong Kong from place horse bet with anyone but the Hong Kong Jockey Club .
Macau have be take off-track bet from people in Hong Kong , but the office handle those wager be close .
the Macau club later threaten to start take wager on Hong Kong race in Macau , at a better price for gambler because less tax would be levy , but the plan never materialize .
neither club immediately return phone call from the Associated Press to inquire about the buyout talk .
Macau be a gambling enclave 60 kilometer -lrb- 40 mile -rrb- west of Hong Kong that be govern by the Portuguese for more than four century before it return to chinese sovereignty in 1999 .
Hong Kong , a former british colony , return to chinese rule in 1997 .
ANKARA , Turkey -lrb- AP -rrb- the charismatic leader of Turkey 's govern party be name prime minister Tuesday , a step that probably boost chance that the United States will get permission to deploy troops in the country along Iraq 's northern border .
Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who favor the deployment , hint that he will reshuffle the Cabinet , but give no indication if he would purge official who oppose let in the troops as analyst have suggest he might do .
Erdogan be extremely popular in Turkey and be likely be one of the few leader with enough clout to unite he party and gain public support for allow in the U.S. troops .
Turks overwhelmingly oppose a war _ by 94 percent , accord to some poll .
earlier this month , the turkish parliament shock the United States by reject the deployment by just four vote .
Erdogan have hint that he will resubmit the resolution for approval , which could take another week .
the United States be press Turkey to act quickly .
ship carry equipment for U.S. troops be already wait off the turkish coast in Washington , Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Richard Myers tell a Pentagon news conference Tuesday that the United States would `` have a northern option whether or not Turkey fully support all we request .
`` I be not go to talk about the operational way of do it , but just be assure there will be a northern option , '' he say .
also in Washington , turkish Ambassador Farouk Logoglu tell the Associated Press that the U.S. and turkish military be hold informal discussion on the use of turkish airspace .
the troop-basing resolution would allow the United States to use turkish airspace .
if the resolution be not pass , Washington would likely want to use the airspace for strike against Iraq and for airlift troops to northern Iraq .
refuse access to the troop deployment would mean Turkey would lose a us$ 15 billion U.S. aid package that Washington have offer to help cushion the country 's economy if there be war .
it would also threaten Turkey 's possible role in the future of Iraq .
Turkey , which fear northern iraqi Kurds may declare independence in the aftermath of a war , have be press for a say if Saddam Hussein be oust .
secession by iraqi Kurds could inspire Turkey 's rebel Kurds , who for 15 year have be fight for autonomy .
after he be elect , Erdogan say Turkey want assurance from the United States on its role in Iraq .
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld say Tuesday there have be talk that turkish troops could be deploy `` a short distance from they border to try to avoid refugee infiltration . ''
iraqi Kurds fear that turkish troops could move deep into the autonomous enclave in northern Iraq and have threaten clash .
Rumsfeld also say that like Turkey , the United States do not want to see a breakaway state : `` we interest , needless to say , be to see that Iraq remain a single country , '' he say at the Pentagon news conference .
Prime Minister Abdullah Gul resign earlier Tuesday to make way for Erdogan , who win a parliamentary seat in by-election Sunday .
Gul will remain as a caretaker prime minister until President Ahmet Necdet Sezer approve Erdogan 's Cabinet , a move that could happen as early as Wednesday .
Erdogan say he would submit he Cabinet list to the president `` as soon as possible , '' and leader of Erdogan 's Justice and Development Party meet Tuesday evening .
when ask about possible change in the Cabinet , Erdogan say : `` perhaps there will be a small amount of change , a certain number of revision . ''
Gul 's resignation have be long expect .
Erdogan head the party but be constitutionally bar from run in November election because he be jail in 1999 for anti-secular activity .
the Justice party change the constitution after take power in the election .
Erdogan , a leader of Turkey 's pro-islamic movement when he be jail , say he moderate he policy in prison .
he party consider itself conservative and no longer use the word ` Islamic ' in its literature .
he now also advocate let in U.S. troops for a war against Iraq even though it be a fellow muslim state .
unlike the soft-spoken Gul , Erdogan have a reputation as a fighter .
`` Erdogan will be willing to engage in a bruise confrontation in a way that Gul be not willing to , '' say Bulent Aliriza , a analyst at the washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies .
`` if Erdogan decide that for he own reason , and not U.S. pressure , he want this , he will push it through . ''
tension over the base agreement spill over into parliament Tuesday when opposition deputy Ufuk Ozkan shout `` you be all american lackey ! ''
at member of Erdogan 's party , the Anatolia news agency report .
a furious Justice party member , Fehmi Husrev Kutlu , rush toward Ozkan , bump into he and send he eyeglass fly , Anatolia report .
other legislator surround the two to head off a brawl .
BRUSSELS , Belgium -lrb- AP -rrb- Europe 's divide over Iraq loom ever larger Tuesday with France and Germany denounce the U.S. move toward war while british Prime Minister Tony Blair say oust Saddam Hussein now be key to solve similar crisis in the future .
as European Union leader restate they opposing view on Iraq , they foreign minister debate the impending u.s.-led war against Iraq with EU president Greece keep up appearance with a pledge to pursue a last ditch effort to avoid war .
Joschka Fischer and Dominique de Villepin , the german and french foreign minister , be to attend a special United Nations Security Council meeting in New York Wednesday , call to issue a last-minute appeal for a peaceful solution to the Iraq crisis . ''
for we the United Natgions be the key authority '' in resolve the Iraq crisis , Fischer tell reporter opn arrival at the EU meeting . ''
War be not justified , '' Fishcer tell reporter . ''
as member of the United Nations Security Council we want to restate that we want a peacefiul solution . ''
De Villepin make no comment on arrival .
Ahead of the EU meeting , greek Foreign Minister Georhge Papandreou tell reporter , '' we have to , and we will continue , to search for a peaceful solution to the crisis . ''
the EU meeting could not hide the fact the Iraq crisis have make a mockery of EU aspiration to craft a common foreign policy .
Britain , Spain , Denmark , Italy , the Netherlands and Portugal back the United States while France and Germany lead a group of nation oppose military action .
`` I would like to see that the European Union country will come through this difficult moment with a determination to work for peace and look to the future , '' EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana say .
British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw remain in London for a debate in which the Blair government seek parliamentary approval for its decision to use `` all mean necessary '' to disarm Saddam .
Blair be confident of retain the support of a majority of parliament as he can count on vote from opposition conservative .
he tell the House of Commons the Iraq crisis be test the fundamental of international relation .
`` it will determine the way Britain and the world confront the central security threat of the 21st century ; the development of the United Nations ; the relationship between Europe and the United States ; the relation within the European Union ; and the way that the United States engage with the rest of the world , '' say Blair .
`` it will determine the pattern of international politics for the next generation , '' he say .
the EU foreign minister meet hour after U.S. President George W. Bush give Saddam 48 hour to leave Iraq or face invasion .
French President Jacques Chirac say war without U.N blessing would undermine future disarmament effort .
`` inspection -lrb- in Iraq -rrb- show that they be a credible alternativ , '' Chirac say .
`` to act without the legitimacy of the United Nations ... to favor the use of force over law , be take a serious responsibility . ''
in Berlin , German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder say there be no justification for war .
`` do the threat pose by the iraqi dictator justify a war , which be sure to kill thousand of innocent child , woman and man ?
my answer in this case be and be : no ! ''
Schroeder say .
Solana say the EU would help in the humanitarian crisis expect to follow a attack on Iraq .
the EU be set to release 20 million euro -lrb- us$ 21.5 million -rrb- in immediate humanitarian aid for Iraq if war break out and may dip into a `` emergency reserve '' of 250 million euro -lrb- us$ 269 million -rrb- for humanitarian relief .
elsewhere in Europe : _ belgian Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt , overrule he defense minister , say he government would allow the United States use of its territory for military transport .
in recent week , the U.S. military have be transport military equipment from basis in Germany to the Gulf through the port of Antwerp .
Defense Minister Andre Flahaut say on the weekend Belgium would no longer allow such transit _ or use of belgian airspace .
_ Greece begin evacuate its embassy in Baghdad , say all its personnel would be out of Iraq within a couple of day .
_ the dutch government , face strong public anti-war pressure , say it would not commit fight force to the war against Iraq but add it support the military campaign to disarm Saddam .
_ in neutral Switzerland , Foreign Minister Micheline Calmy-Rey say the United States ' decision to proceed with military action weaken the United Nations .
`` it will be up to U.N. member state to restore its credibility , '' she say .
-lrb- rw-pa-rac -rrb-
LOS ANGELES -lrb- AP -rrb- Barry Diller resign as co-chief executive of Vivendi Universal Entertainment , say it be appropriate for he to step down while paris-based Vivendi Universal entertain bid for Universal Studios , Universal 's theme park and other entertainment asset .
Diller be appoint interim ceo of Vivendi Universal 's u.s.-based entertainment asset last year while Vivendi Universal concentrate on repay a massive debt .
cash-strapped Vivendi want to sell Universal Studios , its universal theme park and television production company .
former oilman Marvin Davis have offer $ 20 billion for VUE , plus Universal Music Group .
Vivendi also be hold talk with Viacom , MGM and other buyer interested in acquire all or part of its entertainment company .
Diller serve as co-ceo with Vivendi Universal chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou .
`` my executive role be never intend to be permanent , '' Diller say in a statement Wednesday .
`` now that Vivendi Universal have begin a formal process in review option for its entertainment asset , it be appropriate to step aside from any direct management responsibility . ''
Diller , 61 , remain chief executive officer of USA Interactive , which operate the Home Shopping Network , Ticketmaster , Match.com and Expedia , among other company , and have a 5.4 percent stake in VUE .
Diller will continue to play a critical role in the future of Vivendi 's entertainment arm .
he personally own 1.5 percent of the joint venture .
Diller also own preferred stock in Vivendi Universal Entertainment .
Diller also be believe to be interested in he own bid for one or more of the entertainment unit 's asset , most likely the film studio .
in a recent interview , Diller tell the Associated Press he would be interested in a opportunity to bid as long as it do not require he to serve as chief executive .
Diller have maintain he top interest be serve as head of USA Interactive .
Diller have serve as head of Paramount and Twentieth Century Fox , where he help launch the Fox Television network .
while at Fox , he be instrumental in create such show as `` married with Children '' and `` the Simpsons . ''
he start he entertainment career at ABC , where he be credit with create the `` movie of the week '' concept .
share of USA Interactive fall $ 2.08 , or nearly 8 percent , to $ 24.41 in midday trading on the New York Stock Exchange , where Vivendi 's U.S. share rise 35 cent to $ 15.15 .
SOUTHERN IRAQ -lrb- AP -rrb- U.S. and British troops be move on the strategic southern port city of Basra Saturday after a massive aerial assault pound Baghdad at dawn .
thousand of beleaguered iraqi soldier in the south surrender in the face of the major push .
the battle for Basra , a oil hub of some 1.3 million people , be underway by midday , with coalition troops try to surround iraqi position and force a surrender .
U.S. aircraft bomb iraqi tank hold bridge close to the city .
iraqi force respond with artillery fire .
earlier Saturday , Baghdad be again target , one day after a massive U.S. aerial bombardment in which more than 300 tomahawk cruise missile rain down on the capital .
the nine-story security headquarters in the iraqi capital take a direct hit , strew brick , masonry and glass across the street in the al-salhiya neighborhood of central Baghdad .
as coalition troops advance , a entire iraqi army division give itself up , U.S. military official say .
the division _ the 51st Infantry Division , with 8,000 man and as many as 200 tank , a key unit in the defense of Basra _ be the largest defection in a day when iraqi leader Saddam Hussein 's force show sign of crumble .
Allied success be mar by the collision of two Royal Navy helicopter over the Persian Gulf in which all six british crew member and one american be kill .
Saturday morning , american Marines and British troops rumble along the main road from the Kuwaiti border to Basra , Highway 80 , nickname the `` highway of death '' during the 1991 Gulf War , when U.S. airstrike wipe out a iraqi military convoy along it .
american unit advance west of Basra have already secure the Rumeila oil field , whose daily output of 1.3 million barrel make it Iraq 's most productive .
until Basra , U.S. and British troops have encounter little resistance , even when they seize nearby Umm Qasr , and move to secure key oil field .
Iraqis mostly fight back with small arm , pistol , machine gun and rocket-propelled grenade .
regular iraqi force have withdraw from Basra but element of Saddam 's security force be continue to resist , british Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon say Saturday .
other unit move into airfield complex in western Iraq believe to have scud missile capable of reach Israel , and possibly weapon of mass destruction .
early Saturday , more unit be wait in Kuwait to smash through any iraqi resistance .
hundred of tank , armored personnel carrier , humvee and truck be line up in parallel column wait in single-file to cross the iraqi-kuwait border .
by early next week , U.S. ground force lead by the Army 's 3rd Infantry Division be likely to be at the outskirts of Baghdad , where they could face greater danger from the Republican Guard , some commander say .
after week of delay , Turkey relent and agree to let combat aircraft fly over its territory .
at the same time , however , Turkey send 1,000 troops into northern Iraq , and the government say it would send more to prevent iraqi Kurds from create a independent state .
the United States strongly oppose any unilateral move by Turkey into northern Iraq .
a turkish military spokesman on Saturday deny turkish troops have cross into Iraq .
the United States and Britain suffer they first casualty Thursday and Friday as they push into Iraq , with two U.S. Marines kill in combat and another eight british and four american Marines die in a helicopter crash that appear to be accidental .
there be no clear figure of iraqi casualty .
australian commando , who have be operate deep in Iraq , destroy a command and control post and kill a number of soldier , accord to the country 's defense chief , Gen. Peter Cosgrove .
in a address Saturday , Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf tell Iraqis that fight have be `` fierce . ''
he say most of those capture by ally force be civilian , not soldier .
he claim iraqi troops have destroy five tank .
he say more than 200 Iraqis have be injure , include woman , child and other civilian who be be treat at five hospital in Baghdad .
Hoon say Saddam 's regime be crumble under the pressure of a huge air assault .
`` as last night 's dramatic television coverage show , the light stay on in Baghdad , but the instrument of tyranny be collapse , '' he say .
iraqi Vice President Taha Yasin Ramadan , speak on iraqi radio , be quote by the British Broadcasting Corp. 's monitoring service as accuse Britain and the United States of work to `` eliminate '' the state of Iraq .
in a letter to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan , Ramadan say , `` it be also regrettable and deplorable that the -lrb- U.N. -rrb- General Secretariat have not issue any statement or reaction that condemn or deplore this aggression . ''
despite the heavy bombing , which the U.S. Central command say target military command and control installation , the iraqi regime give no sign of quit .
bomber have also hit target in the northern city of Mosul , Kirkuk and Tikrit , Saddam 's hometown .
the iraqi government release a video of Saddam , in uniform , meeting with he son Qusai , the commander of the Republican Guard , and the defense minister , Gen. Sultan Hashim Ahmad .
it be unclear when the video be make .
U.S. intelligence official say the iraqi command and control system be in disarray , and U.S. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld say , `` the regime be start to lose control of they country . ''
LAHAINA , Hawaii -lrb- AP -rrb- the premier of the western Canadian province of British Columbia plead no contest to drive drunk during a hawaiian vacation in January .
Gordon Campbell be order to pay fine and fee total $ 913 , complete a 14-hour alcohol assessment program and have a substance abuse assessment .
under a no contest plea , the defendant neither admit nor deny the charge but agree not to contest it .
`` Mr. Campbell be sufficiently embarrassed and ashamed for what he do , as well he should be , '' District Judge Reinette Cooper say Monday .
Campbell be not in court .
Lawyer Steven Barta say he client have already complete the required program in Canada .
he also bring a check from Campbell to pay the fine and fee .
in the provincial capital of Victoria , Campbell say he be treat fairly and no longer drink alcohol .
Campbell , 55 , be pull over Jan. 10 after police observe he drive erratically in a rent sport-utility vehicle .
Campbell 's blood-alcohol reading be 0.161 percent , more than twice the legal limit , in a roadside sobriety test .
in a tearful news conference after return to Vancouver two day later , Campbell apologize to british columbian , but refuse to resign as premier .
he say he drink three martini and some wine before get behind the wheel .
BRIDGEPORT , Connecticut -lrb- AP -rrb- Retired General Electric Co. .
Chairman Jack Welch be seek work-related document of he estrange wife in he high-stakes divorce case .
the Welches disclose they plan to divorce a year ago , shortly after Suzy Wetlaufer _ then editor of the Harvard Business Review _ reveal she have become romantically involve with Welch while work on a story about he .
in court papers file this week in state Supreme Court in New York , Welch request a deposition next month of David Heleniak , a senior partner in the law firm of Shearman & Sterling in New York .
he also want to subpoena all document maintain in Jane Beasley Welch 's personnel file by Shearman & Sterling , a prestigious corporate law firm where she work before she marry Welch .
Welch specifically be seek performance evaluation , correspondence between he estrange wife and partner while she work at the law firm 's office in London , and document relate to she prospects of become a partner .
Welch also want detail on Jane Beasley Welch 's salary , benefit , retirement plan and other compensation pay to she .
Michael York , one of Jack Welch 's attorney , call the move routine .
a judge rule in February that deposition in the divorce case will remain confidential .
earlier document in the case have include embarrassing detail about perk Welch receive as part of he retirement package from GE at a time when corporate scandal be spark outrage .
the court order be request by Jack Welch 's attorney , Daniel K. Webb , who say Welch would likely be ask about he business dealings , he health and entry in he personal diary .
Webb also say detail of the breakdown of the Welches ' previous marriage be likely to come up , and cite report of alleged extramarital affair by both .
Welch have previously fail in a attempt to temporarily seal a financial affidavit .
that document detailed monthly outlay of some $ 51,000 for upkeep on a half-dozen house scatter from Massachusetts to Florida , more than $ 52,000 for gift and nearly $ 9,000 for food and drink , among other expense .
UMM QASR , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- the first sizable relief convoy arrive in Iraq during a sandstorm Wednesday as ally force struggle to clear the way for more aid shipment , use dolphin to remove mine from waterway and hunting iraqi fighter around the port of Umm Qasr .
three day after U.S. President George W. Bush promise `` massive amount '' of humanitarian aid , seven large , battered tractor-trailer arrive in Umm Qasr carry food and water donate by Kuwaitis .
the convoy be escort by U.S. soldier .
`` we plan for 30 truck but we only get seven load because of the severe sandstorm , '' say E.J. Russell of the Humanitarian Operations Center , a joint u.s.-kuwaiti agency .
the storm cut visibility to about 100 yard -lrb- 91 meter -rrb- .
hundred of case of water be stack on three of the truck .
the rest carry box of tuna , cracker , sweet and other food .
as the truck lumber past blast building on the iraq-kuwait border , a iraqi boy of about 10 point to he mouth and shout `` eat , eat ! ''
people line up along the street , give thumbs-up sign to the aid convoy as it roll by and beg for food and cigarette .
after day of fierce fighting that shut down the city of Umm Qasr , iraqi youth cheer and swarm british troops as they hand out yellow meal packet and bottle of water Wednesday .
the troops , already in the city , be not part of the aid convoy .
`` Umm Qasr be now secure _ as a port and as a town , '' say Brig. Jim Dutton of the Royal Marines .
the town 's deepwater port , the only one in Iraq , be essential for any relief effort .
plan to bring supplies to iraqi civilian have be on hold for day because of fight across southern Iraq .
on Tuesday , U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan warn U.S. national security adviser Condoleezza Rice that the United States be legally responsible for provide relief aid .
White House spokesman Ari Fleischer blame Saddam Hussein 's regime for slow the flow of us$ 105 million in U.S. aid by place mine in the port of Umm Qasr .
U.S. Navy helicopter fly two dolphin _ Makai and Tacoma _ into Umm Qasr , where they be to begin ferret out mine Wednesday .
Royal Marine commando carry out a overnight sweep around the port , search for iraqi holdout .
the British say they have enough control over the area to begin send in ship .
a british ship , the Sir Galahad , move into position at the mouth of the Khor Abdallah river Tuesday night with 211 ton of food and 101 ton of bottled water .
it be to begin the six-hour journey into Umm Qasr on Wednesday , accord to a pool report .
Iraqis have about five week of food leave , accord to estimate by the World Food Program .
about 13 million people _ 60 percent of Iraq 's 22 million _ be completely dependent on food handout , the World Food Program , a U.N. agency , say it would make its biggest single request for cash in its history _ more than us$ 1 billion to help feed the war-stricken nation for about six month .
`` this could well turn into the largest humanitarian operation in history , '' say agency spokesman Trevor Rowe .
before the war , Iraqis depend on government ration distribute under the U.N. 's oil-for-food program .
the 7-year-old program allow Iraq to sell unlimited quantity of oil to buy food , medicine and other humanitarian goods .
the proceeds from oil sale be deposit in a u.n.-controlled escrow account .
the war have throw the future of that program in doubt .
because the United States and Britain fail to get U.N. back for the war , Russia , France , Germany and China want to ensure that the immediate humanitarian cost of the war be pay by the United States _ and not the United Nations .
Annan want to revive the U.N. aid program as quickly as possible .
a resolution give he authority to run the program for 45 day be stall because Russia , Syria and other be insist the United Nations must not sanction the war or give the United States control over the u.n.-controlled account , which hold billion of dollar .
iraqi Trade Minister Mohammed Mehdi Saleh accuse the United States and Britain of cause the hardship by launch the war and disrupt shipment of supplies under the oil-for-food program .
he claim , though , that Iraq can fend for itself : `` Iraq do not need any humanitarian assistance .
we be a rich country . ''
IRBIL , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- kurdish militiaman and U.S. special operation troops link up with more than 1,000 U.S. Army paratrooper Thursday to secure the area around a strategic air strip , as the first large coalition ground force in northern Iraq begin open another front against Saddam Hussein 's regime .
the Army 's 173rd Airborne brigade , include elite Army Rangers , jump out of low-flying c-17 transport plane under cover of darkness Wednesday and secure a snow-dusted airfield , which will be use to bring in supplies and support personnel .
the airdrop _ one of the biggest paratroop drop in decade _ be a dramatic entry for ground troops into a region where only small group of U.S. special force have be operate .
Coalition airstrike have be hit iraqi military force and other strategic target in the north .
`` this tighten the noose against Saddam 's force battle coalition force to the south , '' Brig. Gen. James Parker , commander of U.S. force in the north .
`` and it may also serve as a warn to turkish force . ''
give cover for the deployment , U.S. warplane strike iraqi ground troops and bunker in northern Iraq .
three wave of combat plane from the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt hit `` ground troops , command and control bunker , artillery position and ... a surface to air missile battery , '' say Lt. John Oliveira , the ship 's public affair officer .
around dawn Thursday , strike resume , with a massive explosion just outside the kurdish zone close to the village of Kalak .
warplane pound forward iraqi position in the hill overlook Chamchamal , 35 kilometer -lrb- 22 mile -rrb- east of the key oil city of Kirkuk .
later Thursday , kurdish troops in Chamchamal advance they position between government-controlled and rebel-controlled area , take over a iraqi check point on they front with no fighting at this point , witness say .
early Thursday , kurdish fighter close off a highway and road near the airstrip where troops be say to be arrive , outside the town of Bashur , about 30 mile -lrb- 50 kilometer -rrb- northeast of the kurd-controlled city of Irbil and 30 mile -lrb- 50 kilometer -rrb- south of the turkish border .
from the highway , dust from a recent snow , a flash light from the airstrip 's control tower be visible in the distance , and three helicopter could be see landing , fly with nearly all they light extinguish .
future airlift into the area will include supplies and support personnel for the 173rd 's fighter , defense official say .
the airfield 's 6,700-foot -lrb- 2,042-meter -rrb- runway be long enough to land c-17 and other U.S. military cargo plane .
Lt. Col. Thomas Collins , a spokesman for the U.S. Army 's southern european Task Force , refuse to say whether the paratrooper deploy directly from Italy into Iraq or have take a different route .
the matter immediately spark controversy in Italy , where there be a strong anti-war movement .
the country 's parliament vote this month to allow u.s.-led coalition force to use italian air space and military basis _ but not for direct attack on Iraq .
Pentagon official have say for week they would have U.S. force in northern Iraq to open another front against Saddam 's force .
the vast majority of the coalition ground troops in Iraq be move toward Baghdad from the south after enter from Kuwait .
Pentagon official have hope to have the Army 's 4th Infantry Division invade Iraq from the north , but Turkey balk at allow up to 62,000 U.S. troops on its soil to prepare for that option .
the use of the 173rd show the military have shift to a smaller , lighter force .
military official say they would have like to have secure key oil field around the northern city of Mosul and Kirkuk _ and perhaps the city themselves _ by now .
though no hostility be expect during the deployment , the 173rd decide to parachute in rather then ferry troops in by plane so that a significant combat force could mass almost immediately to protect itself , officer say , accord to a U.S. reporter travel with the 173rd .
`` Kirkuk be key .
the iraqi 's want it , the Kurds want it , the Turks want it and various other ethnic group also want it , '' Maj. Mike Hastings say .
`` what this drop mean be that we can secure it until we be relieve by other force . ''
besides Mosul and Kirkuk , another key target in northern Iraq be Tikrit , Saddam 's hometown and the tribal center for most of he inner circle .
most of the Adnan Division of the Republican Guard relocate from the Mosul area to the Tikrit area shortly before the war begin .
another key mission for the 173rd could be to keep order in northern Iraq , which be control by two semi-autonomous kurdish faction but also include several splinter group and a base for the al-qaida-linked Ansar al-Islam .
Turkey have say it may send more troops into northern Iraq to prevent refugee from move north , while U.S. official have say they advise Turkey against send large additional force into northern Iraq .
COPENHAGEN , Denmark -lrb- AP -rrb- Former danish international Stig Toefting drop he appeal of a assault conviction and will serve a four-month jail sentence , Denmark 's tv2 report Monday .
toeft be convict in October 2002 of assault a pair of restaurant worker during a night out with national squad teammate in the capital , Copenhagen .
he be sentence to four month in prison , but appeal .
the hearing be schedule for April 10 .
tv2 , quote Toefting 's lawyer Anders Nemeth , report that that 33-year-old midfielder be ready to serve he sentence immediately .
neither toefting or Nemeth be immediately available for comment .
earlier this month , Toefting say English Premier League club Bolton let he go so he could prepare for the appeal .
it be unclear whether Toefting would return to Bolton after serve he sentence .
the club say it be not aware of Toefting 's decision to drop he appeal .
toeft transfer to Bolton in February 2002 from german club Hamburg .
Toefting have be convict before .
in 1999 he be give a 20-day suspended sentence for assault a fan who berate he for play with german club duisburg .
the popular player _ know for he temperament and the word `` no regret '' tattoo across he chest _ retire from Denmark 's national team after it be knock out in the second round of the 2002 World Cup .
toeft join the danish squad in 1993 and have 41 cap .
SOUTH of BAGHDAD , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- U.S. soldier move to capture Baghdad 's Saddam International Airport early Friday and fight run battle with iraqi defender along the city 's southern fringe .
`` a vise be close on the regime , '' U.S. President George W. Bush say .
some frontline unit go on heighten alert against the threat of chemical weapon , order to wear rubber boot and suit despite temperature that soar into the 90 .
there be fierce fighting in Kut , to the south of Baghdad , where desperate Iraqis arm with rifle charge tank in a suicide raid .
`` we mow down '' the attacker , say Lt. Col. B.P. McCoy .
despite declaration that more tough fighting lie ahead , the top U.S. military official indicate there may not be a all-out battle for Baghdad .
Gen. Richard Myers , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , suggest isolate member of the old regime in the capital _ cut off from the rest of the country _ while a `` interim administration '' be put in place to begin work on a postwar government .
a meeting to organize a interim government could be hold in Iraq within a week , a senior Pentagon official say Thursday night .
for the first time in the war , large part of Baghdad lose electricity .
the cause be not know .
Myers tell reporter at a Pentagon briefing that Americans have not target the power grid .
Tracer round light the night sky and artillery boom near the airport a few kilometer -lrb- mile -rrb- from the heart of President Saddam Hussein 's capital of 5 million people .
at one stage , it appear that U.S. force have take control of the airport , `` and then it get more confusing with continued fighting , Myers say Thursday night .
capture of the airport would give american and british troops a facility for airlift equipment and troops to Baghdad .
along the city 's southern edge , U.S. tank and Bradley vehicle destroy at least seven iraqi armored personnel carrier and more than 15 iraqi tank in fight that go on for more than four hour .
two week into the war , american commander report a string of success _ on the battlefield and within a iraqi population initially reluctant about embrace invade troops .
kurdish fighter in the north chip in , when a top leader suggest they may agree not to seek control of the northern city of Kirkuk .
there be battlefield setback , as well .
two Marines be kill and one injure in the close-quarter fight in Kut .
and a Army soldier investigate a destroy tank in central Iraq be kill by friendly fire when he be mistake for a iraqi , the military say .
U.S. defense official also be investigate whether a Navy Hornet jet that crash Wednesday be shoot down by a U.S. patriot missile .
the Navy be search for the pilot Thursday .
the overall toll of american troops dead pass 50 , and Bush visit a Marine camp , which have lose 13 _ more than any other installation .
`` he be in heaven , '' the commander in chief tell the family of one fall Marine in a private moment .
to the cheer of thousand earlier in a speech , he vow victory , and say , `` a vise be close on the regime . ''
iraqi official issue the latest in a series of exhortation in Saddam 's name .
`` fight they with you hand .
God will disgrace they , '' they say , refer to invade american and british troops .
but the daily urging seem increasingly at odds with the military situation across the country , and Myers say Saddam have lose control of 45 percent of Iraq 's territory .
as conventional unit fight they way to the outskirts of the capital , official say special force have raid the Tharthar presidential palace near Tikrit , Saddam 's hometown .
document be seize at the site north of Baghdad , say Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks at U.S. Central command in the Persian Gulf , but no ranking member of the regime be find .
`` that be all right , he add , `` there be other operation ongoing . ''
to the far north , U.S. special force and kurdish militiaman capture the town of Bardarash and a nearby bridge , one of few route into the city of Mosul near government-held oil field .
Iraqis have hold the town for 13 year .
in the country 's southern region , british force penetrate closer to the center of Basra , and warplane drop 500-pound -lrb- 225-kilogram -rrb- and 1,000-pound -lrb- 450-kilogram -rrb- laser-guided bomb on a iraqi intelligence complex .
die-hard defender have hold out for day inside the city of 1.3 million .
american official cite continue example of Iraqis cooperate with invade troops .
in Najaf , they say a prominent cleric under house arrest by the iraqi government have urge the population not to interfere with the operation of american or british force .
a small group of iraqi defender have be hold out inside the city in a mosque , consider a shiite holy site , and local cleric say one religious leader have recently arrive in hope of arrange for they safe passage out of the shrine .
ground force close in on Baghdad from separate southern approach , the Army from the southeast and Marines from the southwest , in advance begin Tuesday night .
american and british helicopter and plane bomb position in Kut , and Marines and Iraqis lob grenade at close quarter .
between 10 and 15 Iraqis arm only with rifle charge Marine tank in the suicide charge .
two U.S. Marines die in the fight _ and a medic who try to save one of they sorrowfully bury he resuscitation equipment on the spot .
Army force roll past dozen of dead iraqi soldier and bombed-out hulk of iraqi military equipment as they make they way toward Baghdad from the area around Karbala .
many more iraqi soldier surrender to the overwhelming force of the Americans , and be shuttle to the rear .
at the same time they worry about chemical weapon attack , Brooks disclose that a special operation force in the southwestern desert have find a number of bottle `` marked in strange way . ''
he say a investigation be under way .
MOSCOW -lrb- AP -rrb- Russia have accept a us$ 150 million World Bank loan to combat the spread of aids and tuberculosis , end a negotiate process that last four year , World Bank official say Friday .
the World Bank first offer the loan in 1999 , but disagreement over treatment keep the project on hold .
Russia object to World Bank rule that require monitoring of patient receive medication , the World Bank say .
but after drawn-out talk , President Vladimir Putin sign off on the loan , which will take effect this year , the World Bank say .
`` Russia have one of the fastest grow AIDS epidemic in the world '' and have a `` fearsome '' problem with tuberculosis , particularly drug-resistant strain , say Olesoji Adeyi , a World Bank health specialist .
`` it be a potential dual epidemic , '' he say , add that people with immune system weaken by the aids virus be especially vulnerable to contract tb , which he call a `` opportunistic disease . ''
AIDS come relatively late to Russia , but spread rapidly , primarily due to intravenous drug abuse and a lack of prevention program .
official have register more than 230,000 case of hiv , though health expert say the actual number of hiv infection top 1 million .
tuberculosis , meanwhile , have also emerge as a serious problem , particularly in Russia 's overcrowded prison .
SEOUL , South Korea -lrb- AP -rrb- North Korea on Sunday reject the U.N. Security Council 's plan to discuss the standoff over its suspect nuclear weapon development , call it `` a prelude to war . ''
meanwhile , south korean official say cabinet-level talk schedule this week between the two Koreas look unlikely to take place .
Seoul have hope to use the meeting to try to persuade its communist neighbor to scrap its nuclear ambition .
the Security Council be schedule to discuss North Korea 's nuclear program on Wednesday , and Pyongyang have say that any sanction impose on it will be tantamount to war .
the U.N. discussion be `` a grave provocation act intend to scuttle all -lrb- the North 's -rrb- effort for dialogue and aggravate the situation on the korean Peninsula , '' a north korean Foreign Ministry spokesman be quote as say by state-run news agency KCNA .
the Security Council 's `` handling of the nuclear issue on the korean Peninsula itself be precisely a prelude to war , '' the spokesman say .
for month , North Korea have insist on direct talk with the United States to negotiate a nonaggression treaty .
Washington have refuse , say a multilateral solution to the crisis be need .
the U.S. administration have be press the Security Council to adopt a statement condemn Pyongyang for fail to meet its obligation to prevent the spread of nuclear arm .
but KCNA quote the spokesman as say that the U.S. invasion of Iraq show that Washington be not bind by international agreement .
a nonaggression treaty with Pyongyang would not necessarily avert war because it may not be honor , he say .
it be not immediately clear if Pyongyang would drop its demand for a nonaggression pact .
North Korea also say Washington be `` seriously mistaken '' if it think that the communist country will accept the U.S. demand to disarm .
it say it will ignore any U.N. resolution on the nuclear issue .
if the U.N. Security Council cooperate with U.S. effort to `` stifle '' North Korea , it would leave the north with `` no other option but to beef up the deterrent force for war by mobilize all the potential , '' KCNA quote the Foreign Ministry spokesman as say .
for week , North Korea have claim that the United States plan to attack it after Iraq .
Washington say it seek a diplomatic end , but have not rule out a military solution .
last year , U.S. President George W. Bush say North Korea be part of a `` axis of evil '' along with Iraq and Iran , and that it be develop weapon of mass destruction .
South Korea have try to keep a lid on rise tension between Washington and Pyongyang .
but official in Seoul say Sunday that North Korea have yet to confirm that cabinet-level meeting schedule to begin Monday in Pyongyang would go ahead .
Seoul have hope to use the three-day talk to try to persuade its communist neighbor to scrap its suspect nuclear program in return for aid and better relation with the outside world .
North Korea call off two working-level talk with South Korea last month .
also on Sunday , South Korean lawmaker say they would work to quickly set up a special parliamentary committee to deal with the North 's nuclear issue .
the nuclear standoff begin in October , when U.S. official say North Korea admit have a secret nuclear program in violation of a 1994 agreement .
near baghdad -lrb- ap -rrb- american troops storm a presidential palace and other key building in Baghdad as U.S. tank rumble into the heart of the battered iraqi capital on Monday amid the thunder of gunfire and explosion .
building occupy by U.S. troops include Saddam Hussein 's newest presidential palace , the Information Ministry and the Al-Rashid Hotel .
reporter see the tank roll into the heart of Baghdad on the western side of the Tigris River , which divide the city .
as U.S. column move northeast along the Tigris river , Iraqis flee along its bank and some jump in the water .
a ammunition depot across the river be on fire .
more than 70 tank and 60 Bradley armored vehicle be involve in the blitz , military source say .
at the palace compound , Iraqis shoot small arm fire from a clock tower , which the U.S. tank quickly destroy .
most of the compound be severely damage from prior U.S. raid .
Col. David Perkins , a brigade commander of the 3rd Infantry , tell he troops before the operation that the mission be intend to be `` a dramatic show of force '' to demonstrate that U.S. force can enter Baghdad at any time , anywhere .
`` I hope this make it clear to the iraqi people that this -lrb- the regime -rrb- be over and that they can now enjoy they new freedom , '' Perkins say .
`` I do believe this city be freakin ' ours , '' say Capt. Chris Carter .
Monday 's incursion by U.S. armor be the second , but appear to be much heavier .
the first one be on Saturday and trigger intense gun battle , which accord to some U.S. account , leave at least 2,000 iraqi fighter dead .
since coalition troops seize Baghdad 's international airport , they have encircle the heavily-bombed city of 5 million people , block off entry and exit and monitor all movement from the air .
in a move weight with symbolism and tactical importance , a hulk U.S. c-130 transport plane fly into Baghdad 's airport .
the arrival presage a major resupply effort by air for U.S. troops , dependent until now on a tenuous line stretch 550 kilometer -lrb- 350 mile -rrb- to Kuwait .
Monday 's advance come one day after british force in the south make they deepest push into Iraq 's second largest city .
Gen. Peter Pace , vice chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff , tell CNN that U.S. force drive though portion of the iraqi capital , seize iraqi tank and armored personnel carrier .
U.S. official have declare Baghdad cut off from the rest of Iraq .
`` we do control the highway in and out of the city and do have the capability to interdict , to stop , to attack any iraqi military force that might try to either escape or to engage we force , '' say Pace .
intense fighting over the weekend take a grow toll on combatant and civilian .
injure russian diplomat and a convoy of America 's kurdish comrade in arm be among unintended victim catch in crossfire and friendly fire Sunday .
Kurds say 18 of they own die in the mistaken U.S. air strike .
assorted prize fall into ally hand , some after hard fighting , but U.S. force have yet to confront Baghdad 's last-ditch defender on a large scale .
inside a vip building at the airport , troops find a lavish hideaway believe to have be use by Saddam , Associated Press Television News report .
Southeast of Baghdad , Marines seize one of Saddam 's palace and poke through remnant of a Republican Guard headquarters .
also to the south , U.S. force take control Sunday of the center of the holy city of Karbala , the Army Times newspaper report from the scene .
U.S. force consolidated position around Baghdad .
explosion be hear throughout the night Sunday , and shortly before dawn on Monday , shake downtown building .
on another vital front , british troops thrust to the center of Basra , Iraq 's second largest city , with a sense they be finally shake Saddam loyalist loose .
british desert rat go into the city of 1.3 million with more than three dozen tank and armored car , a column similar in size to the american unit that probe suburban Baghdad .
the british find resistance softer than expect , pick up report that the local Baath Party leadership be crumble and fight into the core , lose at least three soldier .
`` we have a lot of it occupy , '' british Maj. Gen. Peter Wall tell the BBC .
he say it might take day to put down renegade .
the United States be deploy some of Iraq 's exile and internal dissident around the country to help root out pro-saddam element , keep order and distribute aid , accord to one such organization , the Iraq National Congress .
the group say several hundred of its member be fly to a area near the city of Nasiriyah .
in northern Iraq , U.S. warplane strike a convoy of ally kurdish fighter and U.S. special force Sunday in one of the deadliest friendly fire attack of the war .
at least 18 people be kill and more than 45 wound , include senior kurdish commander , kurdish official say .
U.S. Central command only report one civilian kill and six people injure , include a U.S. soldier , but its investigation be not complete .
a convoy of russian diplomat , include the ambassador , come under fire Sunday while evacuate Baghdad , the russian foreign ministry say .
a correspondent for state-run russian television say the convoy be catch in a crossfire and three diplomat be hurt , one with a serious stomach wound .
U.S. Central command say no ally force be operate in the area at the time , but it be investigate what happen .
TOKYO -lrb- AP -rrb- Toyota Motor Corp. say Tuesday it will promote Akio Toyoda , a grandson of the company 's founder who be widely view as a candidate to some day head Japan 's largest automaker .
manage director Toyoda , 46 , grandson of Kiichiro Toyoda and the eldest son of Toyota honorary chairman Shoichiro Toyoda , will become one of 14 senior manage director under a streamlined management system set to be introduce after a shareholder ' meeting in June , the company say in a statement .
Toyoda , who join Toyota , base in Toyota city , central Japan , in 1984 , spearhead the automaker 's internet and telematic business _ a technology that put wireless communication into vehicle .
consider a candidate for future Toyota president , Toyoda oversee its China business , a critical market for the automaker .
Toyoda have be on the star track for year .
when he join the board in 2000 , he be its youngest member .
under a reform lead by President Fujio Cho , the membership of Toyota 's board of director will be slash to 27 from 58 .
Executive vice president will be reduce to seven from nine .
the new system be design to `` speed up decision-making and operation , '' Toyota spokesman Shigeru Hayakawa say .
Toyota 's top post hold by Cho and Chairman Hiroshi Okuda remain unchanged .
Kiichiro Toyoda found the automaker in 1937 , transform the loom manufacturer start by he father into a automaker .
BAGHDAD , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- U.S. force tighten they grip throughout Baghdad , enter the city for the first time from the north , seize a military airport and battle sniper and Republican Guard fighter .
meanwhile , the U.S. military face sharp criticism over assault that kill three foreign journalist .
Pentagon official say Tuesday they do not know whether iraqi President Saddam Hussein die in the U.S. airstrike on a Baghdad neighborhood the day before .
the strike destroy three nearby house and kill at least two people .
U.S. Marines battle sniper as they fight deeper into the capital from the east .
they seize the Rasheed Airport and capture enough ammunition for a estimate 3,000 troops .
ominously , they also take a prison where they find U.S. Army uniform and chemical weapon suit possibly belong to American POWs .
some army unit route iraqi fighter from a Republican Guard headquarters inside the capital .
other discover a 12-room complex inside a cave , complete with white marble floor and fluorescent lighting .
member of the U.S. Army 's v Corps open up a new front by enter Baghdad from the north .
the toll on iraqi civilian four day after Americans first penetrate the Baghdad outskirts be unknown .
but the World Health Organization say Baghdad 's hospital be run out of supplies to treat the burn , shrapnel wound and spinal injury cause by the fighting .
iraqi official , however , remain defiant , say Iraq 's force would never surrender to american force : `` they will be burnt , '' say Information Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahhaf .
in central Baghdad , a Reuters cameraman and a cameraman for Spain 's Telecinco die when a american tank fire on the Palestine Hotel .
`` the incident ... raise question about the judgment of the advance U.S. troops who have know all along that this hotel be the main base for almost all foreign journalist in Baghdad , '' Reuters Editor-in-Chief Geert Linnebank say .
Tareq Ayyoub , a journalist with Al-Jazeera , die when a U.S. warplane bomb the arab-language satellite television 's office .
a Abu Dhabi TV office in Baghdad also be hit .
Al-Jazeera categorically deny that its Baghdad bureau have be use by iraqi force to fire on U.S. troops .
U.S. Central command say it fire on the tv office and the hotel after U.S. force come under `` significant '' fire from those building .
Associated Press photographer Jerome Delay say he watch from the top floor of the hotel as american tank take up position on the bridge .
`` all the shooting be concentrate on the bridge and across the river , '' where U.S. force be located , he say .
it be not clear whether any iraqi leader have be kill in the airstrike target Saddam in a upscale Baghdad neighborhood .
iraqi rescue worker pull two body from the rubble but say the toll could be as high as 14 .
`` I do not know whether he survive , '' U.S President George W. Bush say of Saddam at a joint news conference with british Prime Minister Tony Blair .
`` the only thing I know be that he be lose power . ''
Iraq 's U.N. ambassador , Mohammed Al-Douri , say Tuesday he believe that Saddam be alive , although al-douri acknowledge he have not communicate with Baghdad .
Bush and Blair seek to minimize they difference over who should govern and rebuild Iraq .
Blair favor a stronger U.N. role than Bush .
`` there will be a vital role for the U.N. in the reconstruction of Iraq , '' Blair say .
`` but the key be that Iraq in the end will be run by the iraqi people . ''
in northern Iraq , kurdish force tighten they ring around Kirkuk on Tuesday , follow heavy coalition airstrike on iraqi front .
kurdish militia take control of sekamian plateau , about 10 kilometer -lrb- six mile -rrb- north of Kirkuk , Kurdish media report .
the area afford a commanding view of the city and the vast oil field of Iraq 's no. 2 oil region .
the U.S. military say two plane have be lose .
a a-10 `` Warthog '' warplane be shoot down near Baghdad , believe to be the first fixed-wing aircraft down by a iraqi surface-to-air missile since the war begin .
U.S. Central command say the pilot eject , be recover by ground force and be in good condition .
a U.S. f-15e jet fighter also go down early Monday and a search be under way for its two-man crew , the military announce Tuesday .
official do not say whether the plane be shoot down or crash accidentally .
british force in southern Iraq work to restore order in the heavily looted street of Basra , as desperate citizen swarm water tanker truck the day after british soldier claim Iraq 's second largest city .
british force also begin establish the country 's first postwar administration Tuesday , grant a local sheik power to set up a administrative committee represent the group in the region .
UNITED NATIONS -lrb- AP -rrb- Iraq 's U.N. Ambassador Mohammed Al-Douri , the first iraqi official to concede defeat in the u.s.-led war , meet privately with Secretary-General Kofi Annan , but refuse to talk about rumor that he be plan to leave New York .
`` I be sorry , '' he say .
`` no answer . ''
`` no comment at all .
this be my last word to you , '' he tell horde of journalist who chase he Thursday at he New York residence and U.N. headquarters seek comment on he talk with the secretary-general , he future and the war .
ask who should govern Iraq , Al-Douri say : `` I have nothing to do with that . ''
Annan also decline to comment on Thursday 's meeting with Al-Douri .
with the fall of Baghdad Wednesday , Al-Douri declare `` the game be over '' and express hope that the iraqi people will now be able to live in peace .
he say he have not be in touch with Baghdad .
beside meeting with Annan , Al-Douri spend several hour during the late morning and afternoon meeting with ambassador and diplomat in the Delegate 's Lounge .
`` I wish he good luck but I do not know what he say to the secretary-general and what will be he next step , '' say Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa , who talk with Al-Douri before he own meeting with Annan .
in a interview with the Associated Press Wednesday night , Al-Douri say he will continue to work at the United Nations and have no intention of defect .
`` defect from who ? ''
he ask .
`` I think the government have already defect .
there be no more iraqi government to be defect from . ''
Annan say early Thursday _ before meet Al-Douri _ that in talk with the envoy Monday , `` he do not ask for a asylum or protection ... -lrb- and -rrb- he do not ask I for help with he status . ''
`` we do talk about what happen , depend on the evolution of thing on the ground , '' Annan say .
the ambassador have vehemently defend he country for month as the United States and its ally seek U.N. back for war on Iraq .
privately , many U.N. diplomat see he as a respectable colleague .
`` I sympathize with he need to create a new life for himself , '' say Britain 's U.N. Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock .
Al-Douri teach international law at Baghdad University for over 30 year before become a diplomat in 1999 , first at the United Nations in Geneva and since early 2001 at U.N. headquarters in New York .
he say in the ap interview he would love to return to teaching but for now he plan to remain at the United Nations .
`` thing will be crystalize one day , '' he say .
`` what I worry about be that thing be settle in the country ... so in the future the iraqi people will live in peace without sanction , without war , without suffer .
this be my message . ''
separately , lawyer who claim that Iraq help plan the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing that kill 168 people ask a judge at a federal court in New York to force Al-Douri to testify in the case and hold the envoy in contempt , say they worry that he would flee the country .
but U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard say Al-Douri still have diplomatic immunity as Iraq 's ambassador .
under U.N. rule , a new iraqi government would have to ask to represent the country , which the General Assembly would then consider .
`` he be still Iraq 's ambassador at the United Nations , '' White House spokesman Ari Fleischer say in Washington .
`` legally , that be the way it work at the U.N. '' Larry Klayman , chairman of Judicial Watch , which represent 14 survivor and victim ' relative who have file a $ 1.5 billion federal lawsuit against Iraq in Washington , say he organization have serve a subpoena on Al-Douri twice , on March 26 and March 28 , but say he have not respond .
U.S. District Judge John S. Martin do not immediately rule but schedule a hearing for next week .
the April 19 , 1995 , bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah federal building be the deadliest terrorist strike on american soil at the time .
the suit claim iraqi official provide money and training to convict bomber Timothy McVeigh and conspirator Terry Nichols .
McVeigh be execute in 2001 , and Nichols be serve a life sentence .
LUSAKA , Zambia -lrb- AP -rrb- the lawyer of former Zambian president Frederick Chiluba be reprimand by a Lusaka magistrate when he client fail to appear in court on theft charge Friday .
Chiluba , who be accuse of steal million of dollar while in office , do not appear at the Lusaka magistrate court as schedule because he have file a appeal to have case hear at a higher court .
Chiluba 's lawyer , Chifumu Banda , tell the court he have advise Chiluba not to appear in court Friday , follow a agreement with the prosecution that the case be postpone for a month while the appeal be consider .
`` the matter be before this court and whether a accuse person wish to request for a adjournment or they wish to be absent for any other reason , such a request must be do here , '' say Magistrate Christopher Shacifwa .
he say lawyer could not decide on postponement between themselves .
shacifwa order Chiluba to appear in court on May 16 .
Chiluba face 65 count of theft include that of 15 billion kwacha -lrb- us$ 3 million -rrb- in cash from the Zambia National Commercial Bank in Lusaka .
he have deny the allegation .
Chiluba be Zambia 's first democratically elect president .
he come to office in 1991 and serve two five-year term .
-lrb- str-sg-sv-dk -rrb-
JAKARTA , Indonesia -lrb- AP -rrb- the dictator Suharto have fall , the constitution have change , the media be unshackled , democratic election hold , and East Timor free .
after Sept. 11 , 2001 , Indonesia be quick to sign onto U.S. President George W. Bush 's global war on terror .
yet , Washington maintain a 12-year ban on arm sale to the world 's most populous muslim nation with the aim of curb human rights abuse still happen despite momentous political change .
frustrated , Jakarta 's general be look elsewhere to replace antiquated arsenal .
later this month indonesian President Megawati Sukarnoputri travel to Moscow to seek the Kremlin 's help in modernize she increasingly obsolete 300,000-member armed force .
she be also likely to open the way for russian company to vie for lucrative deal in the oil and gas sector , long dominate by american and british resource giant .
although opposite end of the Earth , Indonesia and Russia have some basic thing in common .
both be geographically sprawl with massive multiethnic population .
both be struggle to preserve national unity as they fight separatism and build democracy after the collapse of decade of authoritarian rule .
both be resource-rich , but face huge economic problem make worse by endemic corruption .
and , currently , both have oppose the U.S. - lead war on Iraq .
Indonesia 's Foreign Ministry spokesman Marty Natalegawa say Megawati 's meeting with Russian President Putin slate for April 21 will touch on the Iraq crisis .
but other diplomat say that issue will serve primarily to bring the two closer together on bottom-line issue such as trade and arm sale .
analyst worry that Indonesia 's military be now so degraded it can no longer control the border of the far-flung archipelago , allow for easy infiltration by extremist .
last year 's Bali bombing , which kill 202 people , illustrate the threat of terrorism in Indonesia .
and , broad opposition to the u.s.-led attack on Iraq threaten to lead to a backlash by militant Islamists .
`` nearly everybody in Indonesia see this Iraq war as completely unnecessary and there be widespread public opposition to U.S. policy , '' say Jusuf Wanadi of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Jakarta .
close tie between Moscow and Jakarta be not unprecedented .
Indonesia rely on soviet military assistance in the 1950s under Megawati 's father and found President Sukarno , but these be sever after the anti-communist Gen. Suharto seize power in 1965 .
the United States quickly become the southeast asian country 's main weapon supplier , and annual arm sale peak at us$ 400 million in the 1980 .
in 1991 , however , the U.S. Congress ban this after indonesian troops kill hundred of civilian in East Timor .
in 1999 , East Timor become free , but only after indonesian force lay waste to it as they withdraw after a pro-independence referendum .
the shocking level of destruction prompt U.S. lawmaker to expand the ban to cover almost all military tie with Indonesia .
since then some in the Bush administration _ particularly Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz , a former ambassador to Jakarta and a prime architect of the Iraq war _ have push for the ban to be repeal .
so far , U.S. lawmaker have reinstate only a limited officer training program .
but that be far from enough for Indonesia 's general .
`` I think the indonesian military have finally decide that restriction and conditionality from Washington be just not worth it , '' say Juwono Sudarsono , a former defense minister .
`` so they want to look for alternative source for plane , helicopter and other hardware . ''
Moscow have already have some success in woo Indonesia as a customer .
Jakarta have recently purchase some russian weapon , include 10,000 Kalashnikov assault rifle , a squadron of naval mil-2 helicopter and a dozen btr-80a amphibious carrier for its marine .
currently , Indonesia use short-range rapier missile purchase 30 year ago to protect its vital oil and natural gas field in Sumatra , Borneo and Papua from air attack .
`` replenish they have be a big problem , '' Sudarsono say .
Air defense commander want to augment the rapier with Russia 's impressive long-range s-300 missile , or shorter-range system such as the SA-15 Gauntlet or shoulder-fired igla .
the Air Force be reportedly consider purchase several squadron of Sukhoi su-27 interceptor , consider the world 's premier dogfighter .
previously , indonesian Air Force commander prefer western jet that be compatible with the u.s.-made f-16 fighter-bomber already in the indonesian inventory .
but neighbor Malaysia 's success in integrate russian mig-29 and american f/a -18 Hornets persuade they otherwise , Sudarsono say .
if Megawati do stiff-arm the United States on the weapon issue , it be unlikely relation with Washington will be permanently damage .
whatever happen , Indonesia , a mainly muslim but politically secular state , be natural ally in the struggle against terrorism and religious militancy .
what could be more worry for Washington be Russia 's economic ambition .
Trade between Indonesia and Russia increase by dlr 36.2 million to dlr 203.5 million in 2001 _ the last year for which statistics be available .
analyst say this can only grow .
the real concern , though , be in the petroleum sector .
Megawati and Putin be expect to sign agreement to give russian company a toehold in Indonesia 's oil and gas industry , long dominate by american and british giant such as Exxon Mobil and BP .
PRAGUE , Czech Republic -lrb- AP -rrb- the troubled nuclear power plant in Temelin receive permission from state authority Monday to start power production at full capacity .
Pavel Pitterman , the spokesman for the State Office for Nuclear Safety , say he office give the plant permission to run its second , newer 1,000-megawatt unit at full capacity .
the plant 's first 1,000-megawatt unit have already operate at full capacity during past test .
the spokesman for the Temelin plant , Milan Nebesar , say that a 18-month trial production at full capacity at the second unit , need to declare the unit ready for commercial production , would start Friday .
the plant , base on russian design and upgrade with U.S. technology , have be plague by frequent , non-nuclear malfunction since testing begin in November 2000 .
locate just 60 kilometer -lrb- 35 mile -rrb- north of the austrian border , it have be a source of friction between the two country .
critic in non-nuclear Austria argue the plant be unsafe and demand that it be shut down , but Czech authority insist the plant be safe .
the plant 's first unit , currently shut down for plan maintenance schedule to take two month , have already enter the last stage of test and should be ready for commercial use at the end of 2003 .
UR , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- a u.s.-sponsored forum that bring iraqi opposition leader together to shape the country 's postwar government begin Tuesday with a U.S. promise not to rule Iraq and conclude with a agreement to meet again in 10 day .
meet in the biblical birthplace of the prophet Abraham , delegate from Iraq 's many faction discuss the role of religion in the future government and way to rebuild the country .
but some shiite muslim group boycott the meeting and thousand protest nearby .
a 13-point statement release after the meeting stress the need to work toward a democratic Iraq build on the rule of law and equality .
it also call for dissolve Saddam 's Baath Party but leave open the question of separate church from the state .
retire Lt. Gen. Jay Garner , who will head the u.s.-led interim administration in Iraq , open the conference under a golden-colored tent in the shadow of the 4,000-year-old ziggurat at Ur , a terraced temple platform of the ancient Sumerians .
`` what better birthday can a man have than to begin it not only where civilization begin but where a free Iraq and a democratic Iraq will begin today ? ''
say Garner , who turn 65 Tuesday and wear a twin american and iraqi flag pin on he blue shirt .
White House envoy Zalmay Khalilzad tell delegate that the United States have `` no interest , absolutely no interest , in ruling Iraq . ''
`` we want you to establish you own democratic system base on iraqi tradition and value , '' Khalilzad say .
`` I urge you to take this opportunity to cooperate with each other . ''
participant include Kurds , Sunnis and Shiites from inside the country and other who spend year in exile .
U.S. official invite the group , which pick they own representative .
many Iraqis boycott the meeting in opposition to U.S. plan to install Garner atop a interim administration .
thousand of Shiites _ who constitute Iraq 's most populous religious group but be repress under Saddam Hussein _ demonstrate in nearby Nasiriyah , chant `` no to America and no to Saddam ! ''
`` Iraq need a iraqi interim government .
anything other than this trample the rights of the iraqi people and will be a return to the era of colonization , '' say Abdul Aziz Hakim , a leader of the largest iraqi shiite group , the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq .
U.S. official hope more Iraqis join the process and stress that this be just the first of many such meeting in Iraq .
the meeting conclude with the delegate vote by show of hand to meet again in 10 day .
a national conference be plan to select the interim administration , perhaps within week , a senior U.S. official say on condition of anonymity .
the interim administration could begin hand power back to iraqi official within three to six month , but form a government will take longer , say Maj. Gen. Tim Cross , the top british member of Garner 's team .
`` one have to go through the process of building from the bottom up , allow the leadership to establish itself , and then the election process to go through and so forth , '' Cross say .
`` that full electoral process may well take longer . ''
Garner 's Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance be charge with coordinate humanitarian assistance , rebuild infrastructure shatter by year of war and U.N. sanction , and gradually hand back power to Iraqis lead a democratically elect government .
Tuesday 's meeting be the first step toward that goal after the ouster of Saddam .
Sheik Ayad Jamal Al Din , a shiite religious leader from Nasiriyah , urge the delegate to craft a secular government , accord to a pool report .
but Nassar Hussein Musawi , a schoolteacher , disagree : `` those who would like to separate religion from the state be simply dream , '' he say .
iraqi exile Hatem Mukhliss quote President John F. Kennedy 's exhortation , `` ask not what you country can do for you , but what you can do for you country , '' and call on Iraqis to write a constitution , establish a legal system and consider what role the army should play .
he ask coalition representative to address problem of security , electricity and water in Iraq and help rebuild destroy and loot hospital .
`` Saddam reduce the country to such a state that it be necessary for people to sell off personal possession , '' Mukhliss say .
`` now it be time to take we country back . ''
there be already tension between the United States and some iraqi faction .
kurdish group appear unwilling to compromise on they demand to expand the border of they autonomous area to include the oil-rich city of Kirkuk and Kurdish part of the city of Mosul .
that could pose a problem for the United States , because Turkey worry that kurdish control of Kirkuk could lead to aspiration for independence and in turn encourage separatist Kurds in Turkey .
iraqi opposition leader fear the United States be try to force Ahmed Chalabi , head of the london-based umbrella iraqi National Congress , on they as leader of a new iraqi administration .
Chalabi be the first top iraqi opposition leader to be airlift by the U.S. military into southern Iraq as the fight wound down , and he and other top member of he group plan to meet soon in Baghdad .
U.S. official say Chalabi be bring in because he offer force to the coalition .
neither Chalabi nor many other leader of anti-saddam group attend Tuesday 's meeting , but they send delegate .
Iraqis protest the conference say it do not represent they interest .
the protester hold banner write in English and arabic say the `` Hawza , '' or the shiite religious seminary in Najaf , represent they .
even some of those at the meeting say they do not want Garner lead the interim administration .
`` we will press for any iraqi civilian administration regardless of what the Americans say .
a administration by Garner be not acceptable , '' say Mowaffak al-Rubaie , a iraqi physician and opposition activist .
he say american official have outline what Garner 's administration would look like : each ministry would be head by a american , either military or civilian .
each minister would have two american deputy and eight american adviser , plus four iraqi adviser from inside the country and four iraqi exile .
_ _ _ = Associated Press writer Patrick McDowell in Kuwait City contribute to this report .
MOSCOW -lrb- AP -rrb- the lawyer for a russian military journalist convict of treason file a appeal Wednesday in a effort to overturn the guilty verdict against he client , who be release on parole earlier this year , news agency report .
Grigory Pasko 's lawyer Genri Reznik file the appeal with russian Supreme Court , the Interfax and ITAR-Tass news agency report .
he ask the court to invalidate the verdict and throw out the criminal case against Pasko , they say .
Pasko be sentence to four year in prison in December 2001 for illegally attend a meeting of top military commander and take note there .
a military court say he intend to pass the note to japanese media with which he have work .
Pasko , whose sentence include time serve , be release in January for good behavior after serve more than two-third of the sentence .
he have maintain he innocence , say the military be punish he for expose environmental abuse by the russian navy , include the dump of radioactive waste into the sea .
Reznik say a initial appeal he lodge the day Pasko be free never reach the presidium of the Supreme Court , accord to Interfax .
the lawyer say the court 's military board have refuse to launch proceedings on the appeal .
Reznik say he address the new appeal directly to Supreme Court Chairman Vyacheslav Lebedev and ask that it not be consider by military judge `` because the military justice system have adopt a bias attitude against Pasko , '' Interfax report .
-lrb- sbg -rrb-
BAGHDAD , Iraq -lrb- AP -rrb- american commando capture a half brother of Saddam Hussein on Thursday , the latest success in a campaign to round up insider from the former regime .
U.S. troops thwart a Baghdad bank robbery over the protest of Iraqis eager to share in the loot .
as U.S. force struggle to restore order in Iraq , FBI Director Robert Mueller announce that agent have be detail to help recover antiquity loot from museum in Baghdad and elsewhere .
agent will aid international effort to recover steal item `` on both the open and black market , '' he say .
with the fight all but over , the USS constellation steam from the Persian Gulf for its home port , carry dozen of warplane no longer need .
it be the second aircraft carrier order home in recent day .
the U.S. military 's search for chemical and biological weapon be unlikely to succeed until Iraqis lead american force to they , Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld say Thursday .
`` I do not think we will discover anything , myself , '' Rumsfeld say at a meeting with Pentagon employee .
`` I think what will happen be we will discover people who will tell we where to go find it . ''
U.S. troops have find suspicious chemical and facility at a number of site but test on the material have prove negative or inconclusive .
eliminate such weapon be a chief reason President George W. Bush give for the u.s.-led invasion of Iraq that begin March 20 .
Brig. Gen. Vincent Brooks announce the capture of Barzan Ibrahim Hasan al-Tikriti , tell reporter he be a adviser to Saddam `` with extensive knowledge of the regime 's inner workings . ''
a U.S. intelligence official , speak on condition of anonymity , say Barzan Ibrahim have be a presidential adviser to Saddam 's regime since 1998 , but have a shaky relationship with he half brother and be not part of the regime 's inner circle .
he be a representative to the United Nations in Geneva from 1989 to 1998 .
earlier , from 1979 to 1983 , he head Iraq 's Mukhabarat , or intelligence service , a period when the organization arrange execution of regime opponent in Iraq and overseas , the official say .
Brooks provide scant detail of the operation that net Barzan Ibrahim , say he be take inside Baghdad and that U.S. special force be aid by Marines .
he say there be no casualty .
another of Saddam 's three half brother , Watban Ibrahim Hasan al-Tikriti , be capture earlier by U.S. force .
the third have not be find .
american force have be criticize for fail to stop looting in several Baghdad city , and there have be complaint , as well , that humanitarian relief have be slow in arrive .
but Marines foiled a brazen act of lawlessness during the day when they interrupt a robbery-in-progress at a branch of the al-Rashid Bank and take away us$ 4 million for safekeep .
thief have blow a hole in the vault and drop child in to bring out fistful of cash .
as word spread that the robbery be under way , Iraqis gather , say they have account at the branch , and a riot break out .
Marines break it up _ over the protest of Iraqis not involve in the robbery _ and the thief be arrest .
`` these people want the money and they believe it be rightfully they money , but they do not understand that the proper distribution be not first-come , first-served , '' say Col. Philip DeCamp , a battalion commander .
Gen. Tommy Franks , the commander of Operation iraqi Freedom , tell reporter during a visit to Kuwait that `` the looting go down every day and I think you will continue to see it go down because the Iraqis be now step up and control the problem for themselves . ''
there be evidence of slow progress .
Baghdad resident gather outside the city 's police academy when word spread that some of the car loot in recent day have be recover .
still , more than a week after the regime collapse , Marine Staff Sgt. Jose Guillen say power have be restore _ by use of diesel plant _ to only about 500 home in Baghdad , a city of roughly 5 million .
he say U.S. force expect to get one of the city 's power grid on line by Friday .
unrest continue in other part of the country .
Americans seek to bring calm to Mosul , where U.S. troops kill 17 people in clash earlier in the week .
Brooks , briefing reporter at the U.S. Central command headquarters , also disclose that Marines have break up violent clash on Wednesday in Tikrit , Saddam 's hometown .
the fight break out between club-wielding member of the former ruler 's clan and a rival group , he say .
Clan rivalry aside , there be numerous other resentment shape event in the post-saddam era .
Majority Shiite Muslims be eager for power after decade of Saddam favor Sunni Muslims , for example .
and Kurds be eager to claim what they say Saddam take from they and give to Arabs in the northern part of the country .
international expert , appal at the looting of iraqi historical artifact , meet in Paris under U.N. auspices and call for a temporary embargo on iraqi cultural object .
some of the participant at the meeting say it appear the looting be organize , and some of those involve have key to museum vault and be able to remove item from safe .
one suggest the effort be organize from outside Iraq .
`` it look as if part of the looting be a deliberate planned action , '' say McGuire Gibson , a University of Chicago professor and president of the American Association for Research in Baghdad .
`` I have a suspicion it be organize outside the country , in fact I be pretty sure it be , '' Gibson say .
he add that if a good police team be put together , `` I think it could be crack in no time . ''
the Baghdad museum house irreplaceable Babylonian , Sumerian and assyrian collection that chronicle ancient life in the cradle of civilization , the area around the Tigris and Euphrates river .
KUALA LUMPUR , Malaysia -lrb- AP -rrb- Malaysia 's second highest court on Friday reject a appeal by jail former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim against he conviction and nine-year prison sentence for sodomy .
a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals unanimously uphold a verdict by High Court Judge Arifin Jaka nearly three year ago that find Anwar guilty of sodomize he wife 's former driver .
Sodomy be a crime in this predominantly muslim southeast asian country .
Anwar be expect to appeal again with the Federal Court , Malaysia 's highest court .
speak to reporter after the verdict , Anwar lambast the judge , say they have be `` preselected '' by the government to quash he appeal .
`` these be spineless judge , '' Anwar say .
`` this decision be all script . ''
the judge also reject a application by Anwar to be release on bail .
but Anwar 's lawyer say they be file a fresh request for bail pend a further appeal .
on Monday , Anwar complete he sentence for a separate conviction on corruption charge , after the six-year sentence be reduce by one-third for good behavior .
he then begin serve the nine-year prison sentence for sodomy , he lawyer say .
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad fire Anwar , he former protege , in 1998 follow dispute over financial policy .
Anwar lead large protest against Mahathir before he be arrest , charge and convict on corruption and sodomy charge .
Anwar claim the charge be fabricate to keep he from challenge Mahathir for power .
the government deny this .
human rights group Amnesty International say Friday 's verdict `` represent another step in the further deterioration in the human rights situation in the country . ''
`` this decision add to the already widespread perception that in politically sensitive case , the independence of the judiciary can no longer be guarantee , '' the london-based group say in a statement .
`` today , the situation look much bleaker . ''
Param Cumaraswamy , the U.N. special investigator on the freedom of judge and lawyer , say in a statement : `` so long as there be judge who be prepare to and continue to compromise the value and principle of they high office ... there be no hope for judicial independence and impartiality in the malaysian justice system . ''
about 200 demonstrator outside the court shout Anwar 's slogan of `` Reformasi ! ''
for political change .
police arm with automatic weapon stand by to prevent rowdiness .
the court also dismiss a joint appeal by Anwar 's adopt brother , Sukma Darmawan , who be convict together with Anwar for sodomy in August 2000 and sentence to six year in jail and whipping .
Sukma have be free on bail pending appeal , but the judge on Friday order he to begin he sentence .
EL SEGUNDO , California -lrb- AP -rrb- Shaquille O'Neal 's wife give birth to a baby boy early Saturday , eliminate any chance that the Los Angeles Lakers center might skip a playoff game to witness the birth .
Shaunie O'Neal give birth to the couple 's third child at 1:52 a.m. at a Los angeles-area hospital , team spokesman John Black say .
he do not provide the baby 's name or other detail .
O'Neal be excuse from Saturday 's practice .
he be schedule to fly on he own to Minneapolis late Saturday for Sunday 's opening game of a first-round playoff series against the Minnesota Timberwolves .
`` we be really happy for the delivery of a child and the fact that everything 's safe and sound and we can go forward from there , '' coach Phil Jackson say .
`` hopefully he can get to Minneapolis , get some rest and be ready to play the first game .
that be a pivotal game for every team . ''
O'Neal have say he could not rule out miss a game to witness the birth .
the due date be April 27 , the same day as Game 4 of the best-of-seven series between the Timberwolves and the Lakers .
teammate Kobe Bryant say he would not be surprise if O'Neal have a big game Sunday despite he expect late arrival in Minneapolis .
`` you just roll off the adrenaline , '' say Bryant , who score 48 point in a 2001 playoff game at Sacramento after leave the team to attend to a personal matter .
the birth come day after the death of O'Neal 's maternal grandfather , Sirlester O'Neal .
funeral service be expect to be hold this week in South Carolina , Black say .
O'Neal be expect to attend .
UNITED NATIONS -lrb- AP -rrb- France on Tuesday propose immediately suspend U.N. sanction target Iraq civilian , a important step toward the U.S. goal of end trade embargo that have cripple the country 's economy .
the surprise move by France , which lead opposition to the U.S. war against Iraq , follow last week 's call by U.S. President George W. Bush for sanction to be lift quickly , so Iraq can trade freely and its oil revenue can be use to finance reconstruction .
France 's U.N. ambassador , Jean-Marc de La Sabliere , make the proposal at a Security Council meeting where member hear a briefing by chief U.N. weapon inspector Hans Blix and for the first time exchange view on potentially divisive postwar issue .
the proposal would end the U.N. ban on trade and investment in Iraq while leave a 12-year-old arm embargo in place .
the Security Council impose sanction after Iraq 's 1990 invasion of Kuwait .
under council resolution , sanction can not be lift until U.N. inspector certify that Iraq 's nuclear , chemical and biological weapon have be destroy along with the long-range missile to deliver they .
along with France , Russia , Germany and China also strongly oppose the war .
but de La Sabliere say before the meeting that Security Council `` must take into account the new reality on the ground . ''
russian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov have say he country be `` not at all oppose to the lifting of sanction . ''
but he say Russia want U.N. inspector to certify that Iraq have be disarm of all weapon of mass destruction , as require under U.N. resolution .
ask about the french proposal , he say : `` we be ready to discuss it . ''
at another closed-door council meeting later Tuesday , the council be to hear from Benon Sevan , head of the U.N. oil-for-food program , which have be provide food for 60 percent of Iraq 's 24 million people .
France 's de La Sabliere say he also propose that the council phase out the oil-for-food program , which allow Iraq to sell unlimited quantity of oil provide the money go for humanitarian goods and compensation to victim of the first Gulf War .
`` there should be some adjustment with a view of a phase out of this program , '' de La Sabliere say .
this be one of the difficult decision the council will face in the week ahead on divisive issue stem from the war against Iraq .
these include not only Iraq 's disarmament and the future of sanction but the U.N. role in Iraq now that the fighting be over , control of Iraq 's oil revenue , and lucrative reconstruction contract .
Blix stress that council resolution call for U.N. inspector to have access to all site and people in Iraq .
he say he tell the council that he believe the world would like Iraq 's disarmament confirm by a international body that have be involve in the country for over 10 year .
the Bush administration , which accuse Blix of hinder its drive for international support for the war , have already send its own team to Iraq to search for illegal weapon .
`` at the moment , the coalition have assume the responsibility for disarm Iraq , '' U.S. Ambassador John Negroponte , say Tuesday when ask whether U.S. team would work with U.N. inspector .
he say important scientist have turn themselves in , and the atmosphere have change which should enable any iraqi `` to speak more freely and speak without fear of retribution to those who be ask they the question . ''
France 's de La Sabliere say he also propose that the council `` find practical and pragmatic arrangement '' to coordinate and combine the work of the american team and the work of U.N. inspector `` so that the iraqi disarmament could be internationally verify . ''
he tell the Associated Press he envision sanction be suspend `` for a couple of month , '' and possibly renew .
he also envision U.S. and U.N. inspector work together .
`` and then sanction could be lift when a legitimate iraqi government be in place , '' he say .
in a interview with BBC radio air Tuesday , Blix say that before the war , the U.S. and Britain appear to have use `` shaky '' intelligence , include forge document , in a effort to prove Iraq have ban weapon .
Blix say it be `` very , very disturbing '' that U.S. intelligence fail to identify as fake document suggest Iraq try to buy uranium from the west african nation of Niger .
he tell reporter at the United Nations on Tuesday that the contract about `` yellow cake '' uranium `` be more than shaky , it be a fake . ''
U.N. inspector go back to Iraq for the first time in four year in late November and discover no weapon of mass destruction during 3 -lcb- month of search .
Secretary-General Kofi Annan order all U.N. international staff , include the inspector , to leave Iraq just before the war begin on March 20 .
he have say he expect they to return .
Annan also say Tuesday in Austria that Iraqis should be in charge of they own future and natural resource .
he acknowledge that `` the U.N. be be challenge '' but say he expect a agreement on the U.N. role in Iraq in the `` not too distant future . ''
LISBON , Portugal -lrb- AP -rrb- the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Europe and Eurasia say Tuesday that the U.S. government will not be involve in choose subcontractor for american company name to help rebuild Iraq .
`` the way it work be that there have be a initial set of contract let to US company , since it be U.S. money .
those company can subcontract to any company they want , '' Elizabeth Jones say .
she make the statement after a meeting with the speaker of the Portuguese parliament , Joao Mota Amaral .
`` the U.S. government have do what it be go to do : it have open up the process to international company .
we can not direct commerce , '' Jones say .
`` once it be a commercial proposition , then international bidding process come into effect . ''
Jones meet with Defense Minister Paulo Portas on Tuesday and will meet Foreign Minister Antonio Martins da Cruz before leave Portugal Wednesday .
about 50 portuguese company - mostly in the construction sector _ be apply for subcontract to help rebuild Iraq , Portuguese media report .
many be hope to reap benefit from portuguese government support of the u.s.-led war to oust Saddam Hussein .
also , Portugal host a last ditch pre-war summit in the Azores island for leader of the United States , Britain and Spain .
SINGAPORE -lrb- AP -rrb- Singapore authority extend the use of its state-of-the-art thermal imaging scanner to fight the deadly sars virus by place unit at its border with Malaysia .
the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority say it begin a trial of the scanner Wednesday at its Woodlands and Tuas checkpoint to screen for people suffer from severe acute respiratory syndrome .
nine scanner , develop locally for military purpose , be place at Singapore 's Changi Airport last week to check people arrive from sars-affected country .
those who show up on the camera screen as `` hot body , '' or with a temperature greater than 37.5 degree Celsius -lrb- 99.5 degree fahrenheit -rrb- , will be pull aside .
each day about 90,000 people cross the border between Malaysia and Singapore .
any person find to be enter Singapore with a high temperature would be direct to a nearby nurse station for further check .
Singapore have report 16 death , the world 's third-highest toll , out of 186 infect from the flu-like illness .
globally , at least 236 people have die and more than 4,000 have become sicken with the illness .
Immigration and Checkpoints Authority spokeswoman Ngoon Pei Ling say during the trial period the scanner would be place at bus checkpoint , where passenger be already require to disembark for immigration purpose .
BEIJING -lrb- AP -rrb- talk between North Korea , the United States and China end Thursday with U.S. State Department official say it be uncertain whether discussion on Pyongyang 's nuclear program would continue .
although North Korea accuse the United States of lead the region toward war in its state media , U.S. official deny report the talk have break down .
North Korea also hint during the meeting that they have nuclear weapon and may conduct a test , a U.S. official say .
earlier , Secretary of State Colin Powell have tell a gathering of expert from the asia-pacific region that the talk have conclude , leave the impression there would not be a third day of discussion on Friday .
Powell also express hope that South Korea and Japan will be able to participate `` when and if '' there be another round of talk .
`` North Korea should not leave the meeting have the slightest impression that they might force we to make a concession we would not otherwise make , '' he add .
but U.S. State Department official , ask not to be identify , say there may be more meeting on Friday .
they say report of a breakdown in the talk be a `` misrepresentation . ''
one official say : `` we have the opportunity to say what we need to say and to hear what the North Koreans want to tell we . ''
a U.S. official say the North Koreans imply during the talk that they have nuclear weapon and that they may conduct a test .
but the official say there be no indication a test be imminent .
he acknowledge that preparation for a underground test could be conceal .
accord to the official , a north korean nuclear detonation would deplete by half they estimate stockpile of two weapon .
in Beijing , chief U.S. negotiator , Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly , decline to answer question , say only the side `` have talk . ''
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao refuse to provide detail , but say the talk be `` conducive to mutual understanding and finding way to resolve the north korean nuclear question peacefully . ''
discussion be schedule to end Friday , when Kelly be to fly to Seoul the same day to meet with south korean official .
the talk be the first high-level u.s.-north korean contact since tension over the North 's nuclear program spike six month ago over Washington 's claim that the North say in October it be try to develop nuclear weapon in violation of a 1994 pledge .
the North have dispute the U.S. claim .
Washington and its ally suspend fuel shipment to North Korea as punishment .
the North retaliate by withdraw from the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty , expel U.N. inspector and restart a plutonium-producing reactor .
North Korea , which be seek a guarantee from the United States that it will not be attack , ratchet up the threat of conflict in a statement issue by its official korean Central News Agency accuse Washington of escalate tension .
the North 's leader fear they could be the next target for U.S. military action .
`` the situation on the korean Peninsula be so tense that a war may break out any moment due to the U.S. move , '' the KCNA statement say .
it say relation with the United States have hit `` rock bottom '' because U.S. President George W. Bush name North Korea as part of a `` axis of evil , '' along with Iran and Iraq .
KCNA say the war in Iraq have show the only way for a country to protect itself be to have a strong military deterrent .
official from Seoul and Washington say the swift u.s.-led victory in Iraq prompt North Korea to agree to the nuclear talk .
North Korea say the `` master key '' for successful talk be for the United States to drop its hostile policy toward Pyongyang .
in a likely reference to North Korea 's demand for a nonaggression treaty with Washington , KCNA say : `` the U.S. should settle the talk from a sincere stand and strive to settle the essential issue . ''
Washington have refuse to offer a formal treaty but say it would consider some sort of write assurance .
the North also likely want aid for its economy , which have be cripple by the loss of soviet subsidy and year of drought and mismanagement .
North Korea and China fight against the United States in the 1950-53 Korean War , which end without a peace treaty .
North Korea and Washington have no formal relation and be still technically at war .
China , the North 's ally and major aid donor , say it do not want Pyongyang to acquire nuclear weapon and have appeal for a negotiate settlement to the crisis .
a U.S. official praise the chinese contribution to the discussion .
he say China 's delegate specifically call for a denuclearize korean Peninsula and make specific reference to a 1992 promise Pyongyang make to South Korea not to develop nuclear weapon .
Ri Gun , deputy director of american affair for North Korea 's Foreign Ministry be represent North Korea at the talk .
China 's delegation be lead by Fu Ying , director general of the Asian Affairs Department of its Foreign Ministry .
NEW YORK -lrb- AP -rrb- Rudolph Giuliani will wed he companion , Judith Nathan , on May 24 in the ex-mayor 's old home , Gracie Mansion .
the news be announce Thursday by Giuliani spokeswoman Sunny Mindel .
he successor , Mayor Michael Bloomberg , will perform the ceremony .
Giuliani , 58 , propose to Nathan , a former nurse , during a November business trip to Paris _ five month after he finalize he divorce from Donna Hanover after 20 year of marriage .
in interview last year , Giuliani say Nathan give he `` tremendous emotional support '' through he treatment for prostate cancer and as he lead the city during the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center .
`` we be close already , '' Giuliani say .
`` and then we go through hell together . ''
Giuliani and Nathan begin appear in public together in May 2000 .
soon after , he announce that he and Hanover be move toward legal separation .
during the legal proceedings lead up to the divorce , a judge rule that Nathan could not visit Gracie Mansion , the official mayoral residence , as long as Giuliani 's child live there .
Giuliani and Hanover have two teenage child , Andrew and Caroline .
the divorce settlement call for Giuliani to pay Hanover more than $ 6.8 million .
Hanover , 53 , be host of a syndicate television show , `` Famous Homes and Hideaways . ''
last month , she and she fiance _ a old high school sweetheart _ invite the press along as they go shop for wedding band , say they be plan a wedding in the New York City area this summer .
Giuliani 's first marriage to he second cousin , Regina Peruggi , last about 14 year .
it be annul by the Catholic Church because the couple have not obtain a church dispensation require when second cousin marry .
Nathan divorce wallpaper salesman Bruce Nathan in 1992 .
they have a teenage daughter .
the giuliani-nathan nuptials will be a first for Bloomberg , who be make a exception from he policy of not perform wedding , say Bloomberg spokesman Ed Skyler .
Giuliani regularly officiate at wedding while in office .
`` the mayor be honor by they request , '' Skyler say .
BEIJING -lrb- AP -rrb- a accident on a diesel-powered chinese submarine have kill all 70 officer and sailor aboard , the official Xinhua News Agency report Friday .
the accident occur `` recently '' in chinese water east of the Neichangshan island , the brief chinese-language report say .
the island be in the Yellow Sea , between the northeastern province of Liaoning and North Korea .
the submarine be on a exercise when the accident occur , and `` because of a mechanical malfunction , the 70 crew member on board die , '' the Xinhua report say .
it do not give further detail or say how the crew die .
the vessel already have be tow back to a unidentified port , Xinhua say .
it say the hull number be 361 , which military analyst say appear to make it a ming-class submarine , a vessel use for patrol and coastal defense .
the announcement be unusual for a communist government that rarely acknowledge military accident .
it be the first time China have announce a fatal submarine mishap , say Bernard Cole , a professor at the U.N. National War College in Washington and a specialist on the chinese navy .
`` there have be rumor go around about the loss of submarine , but this be the first fatal accident that I know of , '' say Cole .
China 's military , which have a tradition of secrecy , do not comment about the accident Friday night .
foreign military analyst say it would be highly unusual for a accident to kill a whole submarine crew while still allow the vessel to be recover .
they suggest possible cause range from a sinking in shallow water to a disaster that flood the vessel with toxic chemical fume .
Michael McGinty , a expert on the chinese navy from the Royal United Services Institute for Defense study in London , say that the mishap likely happen while the submarine be on the surface .
if the accident happen when the vessel be underwater , it be less likely that China could have recover it , say McGinty , a former british submariner .
`` for a accident to have be so catastrophic when the submarine be on the surface , I find it a very mysterious thing , '' he say .
McGinty say that the submarine 's battery might have leak acid that mix with seawater , create toxic chlorine gas that kill the crew .
the torpedo might have leak propellant that poison the crew , he say .
the accident could have occur as long ago as March , say Cole , a former U.S. Navy antisubmarine warfare officer .
`` there have be exercise go on in the Yellow Sea over the past two month , '' he say .
`` this boat could have be involve in those exercise and go down over a month ago . ''
Cole say the loss of all hand suggest the vessel be flood or sink because of a collision or engineering problem .
he say ming-class sub usually carry a crew of 50 , suggest that the other aboard might have be technician or staff officer .
China begin build the ming-class sub in the 1970 , and they be obsolete by modern standard , accord to the Federation of American scientist .
the first three ming-class sub be complete between 1971 and 1979 , and one of they be scrap after a fire , accord to the web site of Jane 's Information Group , a lead of source defense information .
China be believe to have as many as 19 ming-class submarine .
China 's submarine fleet include 66 boat , most of they age diesel-electric vessel , McGinty say .
he say the fleet suffer from a chronic lack of money , training and maintenance .
but the Chinese be aggressively update they fleet with russian-made kilo-class diesel-electric sub .
`` the submarine force be the most potent part of the chinese navy , '' say Cole .
despite the difficulty of maintain a fleet , sub be valuable because they be hard to detect , Cole say .
in a conflict over Taiwan or some other confrontation , he say , `` China 's ability to field a force of even a dozen submarine could pose a big problem for any other naval force . ''
Xinhua say former President Jiang Zemin , who be chairman of the commission that run China 's military , on Friday send condolence to family member of the crew .
LONDON -lrb- AP -rrb- the United States and Britain be prepare a resolution that would give the United Nations a role in humanitarian relief but not peacekeep in Iraq , a senior official in U.S. President George W. Bush 's administration say Friday .
separately , the United States have decide to divide the military and humanitarian relief mission in Iraq into three part under American , British and Polish command , the official say , speak on condition of anonymity .
six european country have agree to contribute troops to the british and polish sector to create a international stability force , the official say .
the draft resolution would limit the U.N. role to help with refugee and displaced people , reconstruction and humanitarian assistance , the official say .
the United States and Britain agree on all but a few of the fine detail of the resolution , the official say , though there be no timetable on when it would be introduce .
U.N. official be already in Iraq provide humanitarian relief .
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan say this week that the body have no interest in police a postwar Iraq , although it could contribute to the political resuscitation of the country .
`` take the question of security .
I do not think the U.N. would want to take on that , '' Annan say .
`` there have be a suggestion that the U.N. want to take over the whole Iraq and run it , which be also not the case . ''
what the United Nations could contribute beyond humanitarian assistance be `` political facilitation , '' Annan say .
the propose draft resolution would probably face resistance from other U.N. Security Council member who have favor a u.n.-convened conference of the kind that help establish Afghanistan 's post-taliban government .
U.S. Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld discuss the resolution with Prime Minister Tony Blair and Defense Secretary Geoff Hoon on Friday as Rumsfeld return from a tour of Iraq , Afghanistan and the Persian Gulf region .
Rumsfeld say afterward he hope the U.N. would play a role but do not publicly discuss the draft resolution outline that role .
Hoon , who join Rumsfeld in a news conference at Heathrow airport , also do not mention the draft resolution .
`` we be right to be optimistic about the way forward '' in Iraq , Hoon say .
International stability force will be send to Iraq as soon as possible , the U.S. official say , though it be unclear when that would be .
those troops will work to restore and maintain order and supervise humanitarian project such as the restoration of water and electricity and delivery of food and medical aid .
the six nation contribute troops be Italy , Spain , Ukraine , Denmark , the Netherlands and Bulgaria , the official say .
representative of those country will meet with british official may 7 and polish official may 22 to determine what force each country will contribute and whether they will be put under british or polish command .
the U.S. part of the stability force will be comprise of american troops .
while that portion be likely to consist of a military division _ about 20,000 _ the troop strength of the other two sector have yet to be determine , the official say .
the international stabilization force would be under the U.S. war commander , Gen. Tommy Franks .
at least initially , the coalition stability force will augment rather than replace the 135,000 american troops inside Iraq , the official say .
the stability force will focus on provide security and humanitarian relief while other U.S. troops focus on root out leftover member of Saddam Hussein 's government and other armed element in Iraq .
Rumsfeld say , however , that the more troops other country contribute to the stability effort , the fewer U.S. troops will be need inside Iraq .
Planning for both the U.N. resolution and the international security force leave out France , Germany and Russia , three U.S. ally that vehemently oppose the war in Iraq .
some of the NATO member who agree to send troops may want NATO authorization for that action , the official say .
request for such authorization will be route through the alliance 's defense planning committee , which do not include France , the official say .
the outline for the international stability force be decide at a conference Hoon host Wednesday with representative from 16 country , mostly NATO member .
other country include the Philippines , South Korea , Qatar and Australia agree to send other help such as field hospital , engineer , explosive ordnance disposal team or nuclear , biological and chemical weapon expert .
the U.S. , British and Polish sector will be draw to take into account ethnic , religious , tribal and political faction within Iraq , the official say .
for example , although ethnic Kurds be the majority in large part of northern Iraq , there be also large number of Kurds within Baghdad .
some Arab country also want to play a role in the stability operation in Iraq but be reluctant to send troops because of political , religious and ethnic consideration , the official say .
country in the Gulf Cooperation Council have offer to donate money for the effort .
Rumsfeld also meet Friday with King Abdullah of Jordan , a american ally in the Middle East .
defense official say Jordan provide key help in the Iraq war , act as a staging area for U.S. special operation raid into western Iraq to prevent missile from be fire at Jordan or Israel .
Rumsfeld do not say what the two discuss .
MADRID , Spain -lrb- AP -rrb- Police intercept 33 african immigrant who come ashore Thursday in southern Spain aboard a overcrowded boat , include several pregnant woman and other traveler suffer from hypothermia , police say .
spanish media show dramatic photo of police struggle to carry woman on the verge of faint after they be find wander through Tarifa , Spain 's windswept southern tip , civil guard official tell spanish news agency .
police also arrest two moroccan man suspect of trafficking in human being and navigate the Zodiac boat across from Africa , Efe say .
twenty-six of the would-be immigrant be from sub-saharan Africa , six of they woman , and the other seven be male from north african country , police say .
Red Cross official administer first aid on the scene , and the detainee be take to a processing center for the government to begin expulsion proceedings .
ten of thousand of destitute african try to enter Spain illegally each year by cross the perilous Strait of Gibraltar to reach the southern mainland or by sailing northwest to the Canary Islands out in the Atlantic .
they seek a better life do menial job in Spain or hope to use the country as a step stone to other point in Europe .
most be catch try to sneak in and some die in the attempt .
-lrb- dw -rrb-
KHARTOUM , Sudan -lrb- AP -rrb- a state security court suspend a newspaper critical of the government Saturday after convict it of publish religiously inflammatory material , the newspaper 's lawyer say .
the Khartoum Monitor may not appear for two month and must pay a fine of 1 million sudanese pound -lrb- about us$ 400 -rrb- , lawyer Ngor Olang Ngor tell the Associated Press .
failure to pay the fine would result in a two-month extension of the suspension .
the sentence be the latest in a series of state action against the Monitor , the only English language daily in Sudan and a lead critic of condition in the south of the country , where a civil war have be wage for 20 year .
Ngor say the paper would pay the fine but it would also appeal the verdict .
the court ruling state that the verdict and sentence would be submit to the National Press Council , a government-appointed body , for approval , Ngor say .
the secretary general of the National Press Council , Hashim el-Jazz , do not answer repeat call to he cell phone on Saturday .
the court convict the paper of violate article 25 of the Press Law , which prohibit the publication of material that defame religion or incite religiously unacceptable activity .
the charge arise from letters-to-the-editor publish last month that deal with religion .
one letter claim that alcohol be not prohibit by Islam .
earlier this week , security police detain the Monitor 's managing editor , Nhial Bol , for 24 hour .
on he release , he be charge with incitement of public discord for publish the letter .
Sudan have a islamic-orientated government and a substantial christian minority .
in a separate action against the Monitor , security official go to its editorial office on Thursday night and tell the management that it be be close until it pay a fine of 15 million sudanese pound -lrb- about us$ 6,000 -rrb- that be outstanding from a court conviction last year .
the Monitor do not appear Friday and its office be close .
in last year 's trial , the paper be convict of defame the government for publish that train run to and from southern Sudan be use to transport abducted woman and child .
mk-jbm
SEOUL , South Korea -lrb- AP -rrb- North Korea 's military may have fire a laser at a U.S. helicopter in March , a U.S. official say Tuesday , as the communist state ditch its last legal obligation to keep itself free of nuclear weapon .
the aircraft 's censor detect the unknown type of laser while it be fly near the heavily fortify frontier that divide the two Koreas , the U.S. military official say on condition of anonymity .
no one be injure and no equipment be damage in the incident .
North Korea say Tuesday that a 1992 agreement with South Korea not to deploy nuclear arm on the korean Peninsula be nullify , accuse the United States of derail the deal .
`` the inter-korean declaration on denuclearization of the korean Peninsula be thus reduce to a dead document due to the U.S. vicious hostile policy to stifle the dprk with nuke , '' say the North 's official news agency , kcna .
dprk stand for the democratic people 's republic of Korea , the North 's official name .
the announcement come as U.S. President George W. Bush and South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun be about to meet Wednesday in Washington to discuss North Korea 's nuclear program .
the accord be the last remaining legal obligation under which North Korea be ban from develop atomic arm .
in January this year , North Korea withdraw from the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty , a global accord to prevent the spread of nuclear weapon .
a U.S. military official in Seoul , speak on condition of anonymity , say Tuesday North Korea be believe to have export us$ 580 million worth of missile to Iran , Pakistan , Libya , Syria , Egypt , Yemen and the United Arab Emirates in 2001 .
in December , a shipment of north korean missile bind for Yemen be briefly stop in the Arabian Sea .
North Korea accuse the United States of plan to attack the communist country , which Bush have brand part of a `` axis of evil '' along with Iran and Iraq .
it also revive its claim that the U.S. military keep many nuclear weapon in South Korea , turn the country into `` the biggest nuclear advance base in the Far East . ''
Washington say it want to use dialogue to resolve the nuclear crisis , although U.S. official have not rule out a military option .
North Korea `` keenly feel that the denuclearization of the korean Peninsula would only remain as a daydream unless the U.S. drop its hostile policy toward the DPRK , '' KCNA say .
it say the U.S. invasion of Iraq teach it that `` a war can be avert and the sovereignty of the country and the security of the nation can be protect only when a country have ... a strong military deterrent force capable of decisively repel any attack to be make by any type of sophisticated weapon . ''
in New York , South Korean President Roh say he will never condone North Korea 's nuclear development , but Seoul and Washington agree the nuclear standoff with the North must be solve peacefully `` by all means . ''
`` it be incumbent upon Pyongyang to give up its nuclear project and come forward as a responsible member of the international community , '' he say .
`` when the North take this route , the Republic of Korea and the international community will extend the necessary support and cooperation . ''
Julianne Lee , a Roh spokeswoman , say the north korean statement might be a negotiate ploy in the wake of talk last month with U.S. official in Beijing .
during the talk in Beijing , U.S. official say North Korea claim it already possess nuclear weapon , and that it have reprocess 8,000 spend nuclear fuel rod _ a move that could yield several atomic bomb within month .
North Korea offer to drop its nuclear and missile program in exchange for security guarantee and economic aid , accord to U.S. official .
the nuclear crisis flare in October , when Washington say North Korea admit have a secret nuclear program in violation of a 1994 treaty with Washington .
JERUSALEM -lrb- AP -rrb- a suicide bomber detonate explosive at the entrance to a crowded mall in northern Israel on Monday , kill at least four shopper and wound 20 in the fifth such attack in two day .
the spate of bombing underscore how difficult it will be to carry out the u.s.-backed `` road map '' plan , a three-stage prescription for end violence immediately and set up a palestinian state by 2005 .
there be no immediate claim of responsibility for Monday 's attack at the Shaarei Amakim mall in the work class town of Afula , which have be target repeatedly by palestinian militant because of its proximity to the West Bank .
the islamic militant group Hamas carry out four bombing over the weekend .
the Afula explosion _ the 95th in 32 month of fight _ go off at 5:14 p.m. -lrb- 1414 gmt -rrb- at the entrance to the mall , reportedly as shopper be wait in line for a security check .
mall and other public place have significantly step up security since the outbreak of israeli-palestinian fighting in September 2000 .
the explosion kill the attacker and four shopper , police say .
twenty people be wound , include several who be in serious condition .
earlier Monday , a 19-year-old palestinian ride a bicycle detonate a 30-kilo -lrb- 66-pound -rrb- bomb near a military jeep in the Gaza Strip , injure three soldier .
in response the spate of bombing , Israel threaten to boycott foreign envoy who meet with Yasser Arafat .
Israel hold the palestinian leader responsible for the latest violence , even though the recent attack be carry out by islamic militant .
Hamas say Monday it have no intention of halt attack , despite Egypt 's effort to have palestinian militant group agree to a one-year suspension of shooting and bombing .
in a renew mediation attempt , egyptian envoy have be hold meeting in Gaza and Damascus in recent day with leader of the militant group .
the armed group say they might agree to a truce if Israel promise to stop hunting militant _ a proposal israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon have turn down .
a Hamas leader , Abdel Aziz Rantisi , say Monday that `` legitimate resistance will continue as long as occupation exist on we holy land . ''
ask whether Hamas be challenging Abbas , Rantisi say only that there be no point in try to negotiate with Sharon , whom he call a `` terrorist . ''
Israel say there will be no letup in its campaign against those involve in violence .
Israel `` will continue to fight terror everywhere , at any time and in any way possible , '' a Cabinet statement say Sunday , after a Hamas suicide bomber kill seven Israelis on a Jerusalem bus earlier in the day .
the minister also decide to cold-shoulder foreign envoy who meet with Arafat .
`` whoever want to visit Arafat can visit Arafat but he will not be allow to meet senior israeli official , '' say a senior Sharon adviser , Raanan Gissin .
Israel first threaten such a boycott several week ago , but enforce it only selectively .
the European Union on Monday dismiss the decision and a spokeswoman say EU leader will continue to involve Arafat in the search for peace .
Arafat , who have be confine by Israel to the West Bank town of Ramallah for more than a year , accuse Israel of incite against he .
`` not to forget I condemn it completely , these terrorist activity , '' Arafat say Monday in halt English , speak before the Afula bombing .
`` at the same time , you should remember -lrb- Israel 's -rrb- incitement policy against I .
this be to increase the siege around I .
where do it happen that a president be forbid from move out of he office ? ''
the new palestinian prime minister , Mahmoud Abbas , have denounce violence against Israelis , but also tell Sharon in a weekend meeting _ the first israeli-palestinian summit in three year _ that he want to persuade the militant to stop attack , rather than disarm they by force .
the argument over how rein in the militant and halt violence have be hold up implementation of the road map .
the plan call for parallel step in the first stage , include a palestinian crackdown on militant , a israeli troop pullback from palestinian town and a construction freeze in jewish settlement .
Sharon insist the Palestinians make the first move .
he be to have discuss he objection with U.S. President George W. Bush this week , but cancel he trip after Sunday 's bus bombing .
the Palestinians have accept the plan as be .
the latest wave of attack begin Saturday evening when a Hamas bomber blow himself up in a square in the West Bank city of Hebron , kill a israeli settler and he pregnant wife .
on Sunday morning , another Hamas assailant blow up the Jerusalem bus and about half a hour later , a third bomber from the group detonate explosive on the outskirts of Jerusalem , kill only himself .
israeli analyst Mark Heller say that `` Hamas be try to ensure that the road map do not go anywhere and that Abu Mazen -lrb- Abbas -rrb- do not go anywhere either . ''
the three bomber come from Hebron and at one point study at the Polytechnic Institute in the city .
two bomber , Fuad Qawasmeh , 18 , and Bassem Takrouri , 19 , live in the same Hebron neighborhood and be friend .
the israeli military on Monday demolish the Qawasmeh family home , part of a policy of try to deter attack by punish assailant ' relative .
the three bomber release farewell video , apparently take in the same wooded area .
in frame grab publish in the Yediot Ahronot daily , the three strike identical pose , hold up assault rifle .
each wear a green headband with quranic verse and a olive-colored vest with pocket for ammunition and grenade .
in another development , israeli forensic expert identify a body that wash up on a Tel Aviv beach last week as that of a Briton , Omar Khan Sharif , 27 , the suspect accomplice of a british suicide bomber who blow himself up outside a Tel Aviv pub April 30 .
two musician and a waitress be kill in the blast .
Sharif also carry explosive , but they do not go off , and he flee .
it be not know whether he be hurt at the time .
the identification be make with the help of dna sample supply to Israel 's Forensics Institute by British detective , say the head of the institute , Dr. Yehuda Hiss .
he say Sharif drown .
pvs-kl
AMMAN , Jordan -lrb- AP -rrb- jordanian authority on Monday say Jordan 's first female lawmaker be ineligible to run in June 17 parliamentary election follow she conviction last year over publishing information that harm the government 's reputation .
Toujan Faisal , 54 , say she be inform of the refusal by a Interior Ministry committee oversee election preparation .
`` the excuse be invalid because I have be convict on political not criminal grounds , which do not violate my right for contest the election , '' Faisal tell the Associated Press .
Faisal be convict in May 2002 for publish false and exaggerated information abroad that harm the government 's reputation and dignity .
she be sentence to 1 -lcb- year in jail .
but after spend 40 day in prison , Jordan 's King Abdullah II pardon the former legislator know for she harsh criticism of the state .
Jordan 's electoral law ban Jordanians from contest the poll if they be convict of any crime , except political , and sentence to more than one year in jail .
government official be not immediately available for comment .
during Faisal 's 1993-97 stint in parliament , she become know as a fierce critic of the government and muslim extremist and a champion of liberal view in conservative Jordan .
she lose she seat in the 1997 election .
snm-jjh/pg
ANKARA , Turkey -lrb- AP -rrb- a explosion in a cafe at one of the capital 's busiest intersection kill one woman and injured another Tuesday , police say .
police be investigate the cause of the explosion in the restroom of the multistory Crocodile Cafe in the commercial district of Kizilay during the morning rush hour .
the blast shatter wall and window in the building .
Police recover the body of a woman from the debris of the restroom and carry it away in a bodybag .
News report suggest that the woman may have be a suicide bomber or may have die when the bomb she be plant explode prematurely , but police and interior ministry official refuse to confirm the report .
Ankara police chief Ercument Yilmaz visit the site of the morning blast but refuse to say if a bomb have cause the explosion .
`` we colleague be carry out inspection , '' he say .
there be no information on the identity of the injure person .
it be not clear how many people be in the cafe at the time of the blast .
the explosion come a month after a bomb explode at a McDonald 's restaurant in Istanbul , cause damage but no injury .
Radical leftist , kurdish and islamic group be active in the country and have carry out bombing in the past .
CANBERRA , Australia -lrb- AP -rrb- Australia will keep open its embassy in Saudi Arabia despite decision by the United States , Britain and Germany to close they diplomatic outpost in the country amid grow terror fear .
on the eve of a visit to the saudi capital , Foreign Minister Alexander Downer say security at the australian embassy appear to be sufficient .
`` we have quite a substantial security presence at the australian embassy in Riyadh and the ambassador think that that security presence be sufficient , '' Downer tell the australian Broadcasting Corp. .
Australia be one of Washington 's staunchest ally .
Canberra send troops to fight in the war on terror in Afghanistan and alongside U.S. and british force in Iraq .
New Zealand also have no immediate plan to close its Saudi embassy .
on Tuesday , Saudi security official say three suspect al-Qaida militant be arrest in Jiddah , Saudi Arabia , in sweep follow the near-simultaneous suicide attack on three residential compound on the outskirts of Riyadh on May 12 .
the bombing kill 34 people _ include nine attacker , eight Americans and two Britons _ and wound nearly 200 other .
earlier this week , Saudi and U.S. official say they have new intelligence point to Osama bin Laden 's al-qaida group possibly launch fresh attack in the United States or against american interest overseas .
JERUSALEM -lrb- AP -rrb- israeli troops shoot and kill a 16-year-old palestinian boy and critically injure two child , age 7 and 9 , during conflict in the West Bank that erupt Tuesday as Israeli and palestinian leader move toward talk on a new mideast peace plan .
the shooting _ which the israeli army say come in response to attack by Palestinians throw stone and molotov cocktail _ come a day after israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declare that Israel 's occupation in the West Bank must end , stunning both dovish opponent and hardline ally .
Sharon 's remark and Israel 's conditional acceptance Sunday of the so-called `` road map '' to peace be expect to jump-start stalled mideast peace negotiation .
a summit between Sharon and he palestinian counterpart , Mahmoud Abbas , have be plan for Wednesday but be postpone , accord to israeli and palestinian official , who blame each other for the delay .
the official say no new date have be set ; Israel Radio say the meeting would take place Thursday .
a three-way summit with U.S. President George W. Bush could take place as early as next week , possibly in Jordan .
israeli soldier shoot and kill a 16-year-old palestinian boy and wound a 7-year-old boy after open fire at stone thrower in the Tulkarem refugee camp in the West Bank on Tuesday , Palestinian hospital official say .
the army say troops fire , and hit a boy , after a palestinian youth throw a molotov cocktail .
in a village near the West Bank city of Nablus on Tuesday , Israeli troops open fire on youth throw stone , hit a 9-year-old palestinian boy in the head and critically wound he , and hit two 12-year-old boy in the leg , lightly wound they , palestinian hospital official say .
a 10-year-old boy be strike in the leg by a rubber bullet , but be not seriously hurt , the official say .
military source say troops be try to break up stone-throwing protest , but do not use live fire .
the army be not aware of any injury .
five palestinian child , a palestinian woman and a police officer , be injure Tuesday after accidentally detonate explosive in the West Bank city of Hebron , palestinian security official say .
the child find the explosive in two plastic bag under a tree and accidentally detonate the first bag .
after a police officer arrive , the second bag explode , seriously injure he , the official say .
israeli troops kill a palestinian teenager Monday and another surrender after infiltrate from Gaza , the military say .
they be unarmed and apparently look for work .
in a village near the West Bank town of Qalqiliya , a 11-year-old palestinian boy be kill during a exchange of gunfire .
also Monday , Israeli soldier fire on four diplomatic vehicle in the northern Gaza town of Beit Hanoun , diplomat say .
there be no injury from the incident .
Peter Lundberg , a official from the Swedish Consulate in Jerusalem , say that two bullet hit the windshield of the swiss Consulate 's armored car , and that small-arm fire also be direct at other car from Sweden , Denmark and the European Union .
military source say the israeli army have establish roadblock at the entrance to Beit Hanoun to prevent Palestinians militant from leave the area .
the source say shot have be fire in the air when vehicle try to skirt the roadblock .
the violence erupt after Sharon endure withering criticism Monday from member of he own Likud Party over he Cabinet 's acceptance of the u.s.-backed `` road map '' peace plan .
Sharon indicate a 180-degree turnaround after decade of warn that a israeli withdrawal from even small part of the West Bank could endanger Israel 's existence .
skeptic , however , wonder whether Sharon 's conversion be a shrewd effort to deflect U.S. pressure in the hope the road map would fail before Israel have to make tough concession .
`` to keep 3.5 million people under occupation be bad for we and they , '' Sharon say in remark broadcast on Israel Radio .
the term `` occupation '' be anathema to the israeli right , which believe Israel have a legitimate claim to the West Bank and Gaza Strip for religious and security reason .
Palestinians and they dovish israeli ally routinely use the word `` occupation '' when demand that Israel leave the West Bank and Gaza and dismantle jewish settlement .
Palestinians claim all of the West Bank and Gaza for a state .
on Sunday , Sharon 's Cabinet conditionally approve the `` road map , '' a three-phase plan that begin with a halt to violence and envisage a palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 2005 .
Sharon tell party critic he be commit to find a political solution to the conflict , include a israeli withdrawal from West Bank population center .
`` this can not continue endlessly .
do you want to remain forever in Ramallah , Jenin , Nablus ? ''
he ask .
likud lawmaker charge that the road map be slant in favor of the Palestinians and endanger Israel .
in he remark Monday , Sharon leave himself a out .
`` what will happen if palestinian terror continue ?
nothing .
nothing will happen .
the Palestinians will get nothing , '' he say .
critic have say Sharon 's long-held condition that all violence must stop before peace move be unrealistic and guarantee failure of any peace initiative , include the road map , thus release he from the necessity of follow through on he remark .
liberal lawmaker Yossi Sarid argue Sharon be try to keep he intention murky to persuade the U.S. government that he be commit to the plan , while he hawkish ally could assume he be just make a tactical move to end U.S. pressure .
`` Ariel Sharon like to walk in the fog , because then no one know where he be head , '' Sarid write in the Yediot Ahronot daily .
pvs-lja
SEOUL , South Korea -lrb- AP -rrb- North Korea have tell american lawmaker it already have nuclear weapon and intend to build more , a senior U.S. congressman say Monday after return from a trip to the communist state .
`` they admit to have nuclear capability and weapon at this moment , '' say Rep. Curt Weldon , who head a delegation of U.S. lawmaker that visit Pyongyang for three day end Sunday .
`` they admit to a effort to expand they nuclear production program . ''
Weldon 's comment echo those of U.S. official follow talk in Beijing in April .
they say that North Korea claim during a pause in the formal talk that it already have nuclear weapon , but would give up the program in return for economic aid and security guarantee .
Weldon say at a news conference in Seoul that north korean Vice Foreign Minister Kim Kye Gwan repeat that claim during a dinner meeting .
both Kim and Foreign Minister Paek Nam Sun tell Weldon that Pyongyang plan to produce more nuclear weapon and have nearly finish reprocess the spend nuclear fuel rod need to do so , despite pressure from the United States and its ally .
`` they admit to have just about complete the reprocessing of 8,000 rod , '' say Weldon , a Republican who be the no. 2 member of a U.S. House panel that oversee the armed force .
U.S. expert say that reprocess the rod could give North Korea several more nuclear bomb within month .
during they visit to Pyongyang , Weldon 's delegation also meet Choe Thae Bok , chairman of North Korea 's legislature , the Supreme People 's assembly .
although they be not travel as envoy of U.S. President George W. Bush , they be the first american official to visit since the nuclear standoff begin in October .
they fly to Seoul on Sunday to brief south korean official on they northern trip .
North Korea say it be develop its nuclear weapon as `` a response to what they see happen in Iraq , with the U.S. remove Saddam Hussein from power , '' Weldon say .
a north korean foreign ministry spokesman be quote as say by state-run KCNA news agency that the visit help both side better understand each other and they share the view that Washington and Pyongyang need to avoid confrontation and exist peacefully .
`` they be of the same view that it be necessary to seek a negotiate settlement of the nuclear issue and express they stand that it be necessary to continue seek and discuss way of settle it , '' the spokesman say .
North Korea have repeatedly accuse Washington of plane to invade .
Bush say he prefer a diplomatic solution , but have not rule out a military option .
in Seoul , South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun say he government have no `` clear proof '' to conclude North Korea have nuclear weapon .
`` North Korea have tell important people of the United States that it have develop nuke and reprocess spend fuel rod .
but North Korea have not confirm that to anyone else , '' Roh say .
`` thus , we must make a very careful judgment on whether we will conclude it have nuclear weapon or not , base on those word only . ''
U.S. and South korean official say that North Korea may be bluff about its nuclear program in a attempt to extract concession from the United States .
but U.S. Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz say Monday that the threat could not be ignore .
`` certainly what we know suggest that we should take what they -lrb- north korean official -rrb- be say very seriously , '' he say at a news conference in Seoul .
Weldon say he delegation `` come away convince '' that the nuclear standoff can be resolve in a peaceful manner that allow Pyongyang 's communist regime to stand while remove its nuclear threat .
Roh issue a similar message during a nationally televise news conference .
`` South Korea and the United States share a firm principle that North Korea should never possess nuclear weapon and that the issue should be resolve through a peaceful manner , '' he say .
Roh speak after meet the U.S. lawmaker and Wolfowitz , who also arrive in Seoul on Sunday for a two-day visit to discuss North Korea .
Wolfowitz say Saturday in Singapore that Washington hope put pressure on North Korea 's battered economy would resolve the nuclear standoff .
on Monday , Wolfowitz stress that military readiness be just as important .
in meeting with south korean official , Wolfowitz urge they to increase military spending on new technology and telecommunications equipment , as U.S. force have do .
South Korea earmark about us$ 14.5 billion for its military .
`` they still work with paper and pencil instead of with the kind of modern communication gear that we special force take with they to Afghanistan , '' Wolfowitz say .
he say upgrade would allow troops to react quicker to threat from the North and help reduce the possibility of a military conflict on the peninsula , not heighten it .
the nuclear crisis flare last October when U.S. official say North Korea admit run a secret nuclear weapon program in violation of a 1994 accord with Washington .
BLOEMFONTEIN , South Africa -lrb- AP -rrb- South Africa 's Supreme Court of Appeal rule Tuesday against a state request to retry the head of apartheid 's germ warfare program , once accuse of plot to poison Nelson Mandela .
Wouter Basson be acquit in April 2002 on 46 charge , range from murder and drug trafficking to fraud and theft .
Basson be accuse of direct South Africa 's former apartheid regime 's biochemical effort aim at destroy its opponent .
the ruling by judge Piet Streicher and Mohamed Navsa of the Supreme Court of Appeal , the highest appeal court in the country , mean that Basson can not be try again and he acquittal stand , the south African Press Association report .
the state 's appeal be base on the judge refuse to recuse himself during Basson 's 21/2 - year trial .
the prosecution allege preside Judge Willie Hartzenberg favor Basson .
the appeal judge find Hartzenberg 's refusal do not relate to a error of law on he part .
Basson head a program name Project Coast in the 1980 's .
during the trial witness testify that the project involve try to create deadly bacterium and anti-fertility drug that would only affect black .
they poison opponent ' clothing and stockpile cholera , hiv and anthrax .
the alleged intended victim include former President Nelson Mandela and several african National Congress leader who be now high-ranking government official .
he have also be accuse of siphon million of dollar from Project Coast to finance a lavish , globe-trotting lifestyle and of sell drug .
-lrb- sapa-es-dk -rrb-
HANOI , Vietnam -lrb- AP -rrb- seven people convict last week in Vietnam 's biggest-ever criminal trial , include two former senior government official , have request a appeal of the verdict , a court official say Tuesday .
the seven include former state radio director Tran Mai Hanh and former vice national chief prosecutor Pham Sy Chien , both convict of receive bribe , the court official say on condition of anonymity .
the trial by a Ho Chi Minh City court be see as a litmus test of the communist government 's resolve to fight widespread corruption .
the `` godfather '' of organized crime , Truong Van Cam _ better know as Nam Cam _ be convict of seven crime , include murder .
he be sentence to face a firing squad , and he lawyer have say he also plan to appeal .
Hanh , also a former member of the powerful Communist Party Central Committee , be convict of receive us$ 8,500 in bribe from Nam Cam 's family to secure the crime boss ' early release from labor camp in 1990s .
Hanh be sentence to 10 year in jail .
Chien be convict of receive a stereo set worth 27 million dong -lrb- us$ 1,750 -rrb- from Nam Cam 's family and sentence to six year in jail .
five other people who be sentence up to five year in jail for crime such as gambling and receive bribe have also file appeal , the official say .
a total of 155 defendant stand trial during the three month of proceedings .
all but five be convict .
one defendant be acquit , while the court send four other case back to police for further investigation .
under vietnamese law , the convict have 15 day to appeal they sentence .
CAPE CANAVERAL , Florida -lrb- AP -rrb- a rocket hold the first of two Mars rover blast off Tuesday on a seven-month voyage to the red planet where the golf-cart-sized vehicle will search for evidence that there be once enough water to support life on Mars .
the rover name spirit lift off from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station aboard a Boeing Delta II rocket at 1:58 p.m. -lrb- 1758 GMT -rrb- .
thunderstorm delay the launch by two day , and launch official contend with a last-minute communication glitch between station that will track the spacecraft .
the second rover , name Opportunity , will be launch later this month , and both be expect to arrive at Mars in January .
move on six wheel , the $ 800 million rover act as robotic geologist .
each be equip with a panoramic camera , a camera for close-up view of rock and a drill to cut into rock .
the datum will be transmit back to Earth .
previous mission have show Mars have water in the past , but scientist want to find out how long the water be there and in what quantity .
scientist believe the water may show that Mars once be able to support life .
the rover ' landing site , on opposite side of the planet , be choose for they likelihood of hold evidence of water .
study the mineral in rock can tell scientist how the rock be form , whether they be ever submerge in water , and whether hot water ever run over they .
the rover be expect to travel up to 132 foot -lrb- 39.6 meter -rrb- each Martian day , which be 24 hour and 39 -lcb- minute long .
the mission be expect to last three month but could run longer .
the rover eventually will shut down as dust build up on they solar panel and they will remain on the planet .
only 12 out of 30 previous attempt have reach Mars , and only three out of nine attempt have succeed in landing on the planet .
NASA revamp its Mars program after the failure of two unmanned mission to Mars four year ago .
the space agency have be under intense scrutiny since February when the space shuttle Columbia disintegrate over Texas , kill all seven crew member .
a logo patch of that last Columbia mission be attach to both Mars rover .
_ _ _ = on the net : Rover Mission : http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/mer
ATHENS , Greece -lrb- AP -rrb- a retired navy officer face life in prison over a failed effort to protect kurdish rebel leader Abdullah Ocalan , tell a court Thursday he feel remorse for he part in the 1999 plot .
`` I have a guilty conscience , '' Andonis Naxakis say during he two-hour testimony .
Naxakis be one of 13 people on trial for bring the fugitive guerrilla leader to Greece .
Ocalan be move by the government to its embassy compound in Kenya , where he be capture by turkish commando .
the retired greek officer say he have be try to get Ocalan to the Netherlands , home to a large kurdish community .
he claim he have be manipulate by the government .
`` I believe I be unwittingly use as bait for its disgraceful plan ... a organize move by the government to hand Ocalan over to Turkey , '' he say .
Naxakis and two of Ocalan 's kurdish associate be be try on criminal charge of endanger national security .
Ocalan , be try in absentia , be indict for enter the country illegally , a misdemeanor .
Ocalan , leader of the Kurdistan Workers Party , or PKK , be serve a life sentence in Turkey for lead a 15-year insurgency against the country that leave 37,000 people dead .
he be be try in Greece in absentia .
04-03-03 02:16:00 EST by EDWARD EPSTEIN c. 2003 SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE WASHINGTON _ have punch through severely deplete Republican Guard division that form Baghdad 's outer defensive ring , U.S. Army and Marine force be likely to pause again to test the iraqi capital 's inner defens and waall but evaporate under the weight of the U.S. assault .
they collapse leave the U.S. troops less than 20 mile from Saddam Hussein 's capital .
bet ` fow central command chief Gen. Tommy Franks and he field commander face a big decision _ whether to rush into the city of 5 million where Hussein 's regime have gather its most-trusted force or wait and see if the war can be win without pay the price of street-to-street urban fighting .
`` we be expectingn or at least planning for , a very difficult fight ahead , '' Gen. Stanley McChrystal say at the Pentagon Tuesday .
`` we be not expect to drive into Baghdad suddenly and seize it . ''
instead of a all-out assault , analyst expect the United States to follow the example of british force outside the southern iraqi city of Basra .
they be likely to mount small probe patrol into the city to determine the level of iraqi resistance .
if these patrol meet little opposition , thousand of troops could rush into the city .
if the Iraqis respond forcefully , the Army and Marine unit could withdraw and await the 4th mechanized Infantry Division , which will soon start move north from Kuwait .
while they wait , the force would try to determine where iraqi strong point be within the city and where Hussein might be , if he be still alive .
`` the Basra model will work for a while , at least until you see problem with food and water for civilian in the city , '' say Lawrence Korb , a analyst at the Council on Foreign Relations who be assistant defense secretary under former President Ronald Reagan .
`` before go in -lrb- with a full assault -rrb- , you have to decide if it be worth the risk , and ... you have to know who be there in the way of iraqi force and the amount of potential damage to civilian , '' he say .
the administration have say it want to minimize casualty to iraqi civilian , which make the british experience around Basra instructive , the analyst say .
the British have be outside the city of 1.5 million for more than a week .
thousand of refugee have flee the city , apparently provide information to the british that have lead to raid on military and Baath Party site in the city .
`` the key endgame may be whether the U.S. can parse out the key regime center of power in Baghdad and attack they without have to fight into the city , or at least locate they well enough to atman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies say in he daily war report .
U.S. strategist say that Hussein , if he be still alive and in control of he force , might like a bloody battle in Baghdad because such fighting could cause heavy U.S. casualty .
he last hope for survival might be that the United States lose its taste for such loss and force President Bush to negotiate a compromise that would allow Hussein and he family to keep power in Baghdad .
but Michael O'Hanlon of the Brookings Institution in Washington say the apparent collapse of Republican Guard resistance could deprive Hussein of much of the wallop he be count on in the city .
`` if U.S. force seriously degrade Iraq 's half-dozen Republican Guard division before that final battle , and only have to face perhaps 30,000 special Republican Guard , fedayeen , and related personnel , the task will not be as hard as it might have be , '' he say .
while two guard division have apparently be smash , there be three other in the Baghdad area .
a sixth remains in northern Iraq .
Cordesman say it seem the guard have be reinforce by unit from the regular iraqi army , which be generally view as less reliable .
this show the iraqi military 's grow weakness , he say .
`` the Republican Guard have take a massive hammering at every level and be now scatter and deploy somewhat erratically at the brigade level , '' he say .
the Iraqis still have not use chemical weapon , even though many expert fear such attack as the U.S. troops near Baghdad .
Korb , who be convinced Hussein have stock of chemical weapon he never report to U.N. inspector , say he would not be surprise if Hussein try to use they .
but he also say , `` he may destroy they to embarrass we , '' to show the world he never have such weapon and that Bush invade for no reason other than aggression .
the U.S. force zero in on Baghdad _ the 1st Marine Division from the east and the Army 's 3rd mechanized Infantry Division _ be train in urban warfare .
but in such close-quarter fight , they would lose much of the technological advantage of they air supremacy , which would have to be curtail because bombing in a city can cause large civilian casualty .
however , Baghdad from the air look like Los Angeles _ wide , straight boulevard intersect by side street in a grid pattern .
`` we force would be capable of deal with it reasonably .
but there would be lot of casualty on all side , '' Korb say .
EAST RUTHERFORD , N.J. Portland trail Blazers coach Maurice Cheeks receive permission Monday to interview for the Philadelphia 76er ' vacant coaching job , possibly doom the candidacy of Eddie Jordan , a net assistant who interview for that same position earlier this week .
cheek , a former Sixers star , be believe to be Philadelphia 's top choice to replace Larry Brown , who resign last week as coach and be introduce Monday as the coach of the Detroit Pistons .
Portland finally give Cheeks the go-ahead to interview with the Sixers , accord to a league source familiar with the discussion .
the Cleveland Cavaliers also formally introduce Paul Silas as they coach Monday .
Jordan meet with the Sixers on Sunday , accord to a person close to the situation .
Jordan decline to comment on the conversation .
while Jordan have be rumor to be a candidate for a number of spot , only Toronto and Philadelphia have inquire about he .
brown take over a team that win a eastern conference-leading 50 game and advajcuf to the conference final before be sweep by the net .
Detroit hold the no. 2 pick in the upcome NBA draft .
Silas be take over a team that lose 65 game and will pin its future on the high school phenom LeBron James .
WASHINGTON U.S. intelligence official now believe North Korea be develop the technology to make nuclear warhead small enough to fit atop the country 's grow arsenal of missides -lrb- potentially put Tokyo and U.S. troops base in Japan at risk , accord to official who have receive the intelligence report .
in the assessment , which they have share with Japan , South Korea and other ally in recent week , official at the Central Intelligence Agency say that U.S. satellite have identify a sophisticated new nuclear testing site in a area call Youngdoktong .
at the site , equipment have be set up to test conventional explosive that , when detonate , could compress a plutonium core and set onfe nuclear explosion .
-lsb- oma intelligence official believe that the existence of the testing range be evidence that the country intend to manufacture much more sophisticated weapon that would be light enough to put onto its grow arsenal of medium - and long-range missile .
previously , U.S. official have say they be uncertain whether North Korea have receive enough outside technical help to even attempt to make such a `` miniaturize '' nuclear warhead .
the new testing capability would suggest that the North Koreans be get closer _ now , official say , the intelligence report say they could do in in as little as a year or less .
but official say there be no sure way of know that they can until they actually test one .
senior administration official say that Washington have be try to convince Asiagent that it require a unified diplomatic front to force the country to give up its weapon .
the new intelligence be apparently be marshal to support the administration 's argument .
accord to official who have be brief on the U.S. report , conventional explosion simulate a nuclear detonation have be set off at the testing site , which be near North Korea 's main nuclear complex .
North Korea have never test a nuclear weapon , though the CIA long ago estimate that it manufacture two crude device in the late 1980s or early 1990 .
North Korea , unlike Iraq , have make no secret of its plan to develop nuclear weapon .
now , administration official say they fear that the country be on the verge of produce five or six new weapon , some of which might be miniaturize .
`` this would give they the range they never have before , and the chance to spread they threat far beyond South Korea , '' say one senior asian official , note that approximately 60,000 U.S. troops be base in Japan .
`` it change the dynamics of the problem . ''
the new intelligence estimate provide to asian ally , however , leave it unclear how quickly the North could produce the small warhead .
the worst-case estimate , official say , be that they could do so in less than a year .
-lrb- story can end here .
optional material follow . -rrb-
U.S. satellite have be watch north korean nuclear activity intently since late last year , when the North evict international inspector .
those inspector have stand guard over a collection of 8,000 spend nuclear fuel rod , which can be reprocess into weapons-grade plutonium .
in January the country begin to re-start its nuclear rexrogessing equipment , which have be mothbal for nearly a decade under a 1994 agreement with the Clinton administration .
but accord to U.S. official , it now appear that north korean engineer run into technical problem in restart the facility .
while intelligence official have reach no consensus , they tell ally last week that in the worst case , only a few hundred of the 8,000 rod have be convert into plutonium .
it would take 1,000 to 1,500 rod to make enough plutonium for a weapon , expert say.o `` what we be tell be that it would take perhaps six month after that to produce a miniaturize warhead , and put it into one of the missile , '' say one senior official who have recently review the intelligence .
`` but after Iraq , who know how good those estimate be ? ''
after the claim make about prohibit weapon in Iraq , which have not be find so far , skepticism about the quality of U.S. intelligence be widespread .
and in the case of North Korea , as in Iraq , the immediacy of the threat depend on whose analysis seem most compelling .
so far , U.S. intelligence have pick up almost no sign of the telltale krypton gas that be release into the atmosphere when nuclear fuel rod be convert into weapons-grade plutonium .
this have lead some analyst to argue that the North Koreans may be farther from produce a weapon than fear a few month ago .
but other note that truck be see carry the rod out of they normal storage area month ago , and it be unclear where they be _ or even whether the United States be sniff for the krypton gas in the right place .
`` we do not believe that the main reprocessing facility have be very active , '' say one senior administration official in a recent interview .
`` but could there be a second reprocessor ?
no one know for sure . ''
without question , though , North Korea 's capability greatly outstrip anything Iraq have have in the past decade , and North Korea 's program be probably several year ahead of Iran 's .
President Bush and South Korea 's new president , Roh Moo-h be unclear whether they interpret the meaning of that phrase the same way .
Bush have say he want a diplomatic solution to the problem , but would not foreclose any option , include military option .
Roh have say any pre-emptive strike against the North 's nuclear facility could prove disastrous .
BEIJING , March 14 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- most Beijing travel agency have suspend tourist trip to the Middle East as tension heighten in the Gulf region , Thursday 's Beijing Youth Daily report .
out of security concern , major travel agency , include the China International Travel Service , China Travel Service and China Youth Tourism Service , have temporarily suspend tour to Egypt and Turkey for chinese tourist .
accord to Dun Jidong of the China Travel Service , once war break out between the United States and Iraq , not only will Middle East travel route be freeze but the entire overseas travel business will be affect .
the only few travel agency still organize visit to the Middle East have increase they price by 500 to 600 yuan -lrb- 60 to 72 US dollar -rrb- .
a 8-day visit to Egypt and Turkey , for instance , have increase to 12,500 yuan -lrb- 1,506 US dollar -rrb- .
accord to a staff member with one travel agency still do Middle East business , the increase reflect the rise in oil price and the increase difficulty in get visa .
ask about the possible war , he say , if tour be curtail because of a war emergency , the agency would refund the portion of the cost cover the remainder of the trip .
ADDIS ABABA , March 17 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- Interim Chairperson of the Commission of the African Union -lrb- au -rrb- Amara Essy have strongly condemn the coup d'etat that take place in the Central Africa Republic on March 15 , 2003 .
accord to a press release of the au on Monday , Essy say au `` reject and unequivocally condemn unconstitutional change of government in keep with the provision of its constitutive act as well as the decision and declaration adopt by the Algiers and Lome Summits . ''
in conformity with the Lome Declaration , the release say the au Central Organ of the mechanism for Conflict Prevention , Management and Resolution will meet very shortly to consider the situation and the measure to be take .
last Saturday night , rebel in the Central Africa Republic , capture the airport in the capital city of Bangui and the residence of President Ange-Felix Patasse , who be out of the country .
the rebel have capture the country 's main international airport , say a top official in a 300-strong african security force police the city .
the rebel identify themselves to resident in the city as troops loyal to former general staff Gen. Francois Bozize , who stage a foiled coup bid in October .
BAGHDAD , March 24 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- five iraqi civilian , include a woman , be kill Monday when they house be hit by a missile fire by the us-led coalition warplane , witness say .
they house be located in Al-Azamiyah , one of the most populous area in the iraqi capital of Baghdad , they say .
one house be destroy during the strike and casualty have be remove from the area .
the us-led coalition force launch a new round of airstrike on Baghdad at 2:30 p.m. -lrb- 1130gmt -rrb- on Monday .
huge explosion be hear in different part of Baghdad and air raid siren sound throughout the capital city , they say , add that iraqi anti-aircraft artillery have begin to fire back .
although the coalition leader have repeatedly assure that every effort would be make to minimize civilian casualty in the current Iraq war , at least 130 iraqi civilian have be reportedly kill since the war start five day ago .
accord to other report reach here , five syrian bus passenger be kill and 10 other be injure on Sunday morning when a US missile hit the bus they be travel in near the iraqi border .
the vehicle be carry Syrians flee the war in Iraq .
HONG KONG , March 27 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- the Hong Kong Polytechnic University -lrb- PolyU -rrb- present its `` outstanding Alumni award '' to five alumnus here Thursday to pay tribute to they remarkable professional achievement and significant contribution to they alma mater and the community .
Professor John Lee hak-shan at the Department of mechanical Engineering of McGill University of Canada , Rebecca Lee lok-sze , founder and director of China Polar Museum Foundation , Humphrey Leung Kwong-wai , President & manage director of Solomon Systech Limited , Liu Sing-cheong , founder and manage director of Pearl River Hang Cheong Real Estate Consultants Ltd , and Samuel Wong king-on , International Deputy President of the Association of Chartered certified accountant .
renowned as the world 's first woman explorer who have reach the Arctic , the Antarctica and Mount Everest , Lee have make immense contribution toward polar exploration over the past 20 year .
in 1997 , she successfully found the China Polar Museum Foundation with a view to consolidate scientific research finding about polar exploration from all over the world to advance global environmental protection .
launch in 1996 , the biennial alumnus selection be jointly organize by polyu and the Federation of PolyU Alumni association for the fourth time , so as to accord public recognition to outstanding graduate of the university .
BELFAST , Britain , April 8 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- a two-day summit between british Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President George W. Bush end here Tuesday with both country try to minimize split on UN role in rebuild Iraq after the ongoing us-led war against the country be over .
as the us-led coalition troops be reportedly thrust into Baghdad and the second iraqi city of Basra , Blair and Bush agree there would be a `` vital role '' for the United Nations in post-war Iraq .
during they first war summit on March 27 at Camp David , Blair and Bush become divide over what a role the United Nations will play in postwar Iraq , when Bush give no positive reaction to Blair 's suggestion of a strong UN role .
after the Camp David talk , Blair , who analyst say have be pursue a special relationship with Washington in order to restore Britain 's traditional role as a transatlantic `` bridge '' , be force to readjust he tone .
Blair and Bush be expect to bridge they gap on the issue by reach a agreement on UN role in post-war Iraq , some analyst say even before this summit at Hillsborough , south of Belfast , the second of its kind since the war break out on March 20 .
in a joint write statement , the two ally pledge to seek UN Security Council resolution to affirm Iraq 's territorial integrity , ensure aid delivery and endorse a `` appropriate '' post - conflict administration for Iraq .
`` we welcome the appointment by the United Nations Secretary - General of a special adviser for Iraq to work with the people of Iraq and coalition representative , '' the statement add .
the United Nations would have a `` vital role '' in the effort to repair Iraq 's infrastructure , Blair tell reporter at a news conference after he talk with Bush , downplay UN role in emphasize that ultimately the country must be run by the iraqi people .
`` the key be that Iraq in the end should be govern by the iraqi people , '' Blair say , pledge that british and US force would not stay in the country `` a day longer than necessary '' .
it be a `` false choice '' to debate whether Iraq should be run by coalition force or the United Nations , say Blair , who be believe to be in favor of a stronger UN role in post-conflict Iraq than Bush .
echo Blair , Bush say the UN would play a role in all aspect of post-war Iraq , from humanitarian aid to a future interim authority , add that Iraq would `` move as quickly as possible '' to a interim authority make up of Iraqis from inside and outside the country .
however , when press on what precisely the UN role would be , Bush on Tuesday mention only humanitarian work , `` suggest '' people to staff the interim authority and help Iraq `` progress . ''
`` when we say vital role for the United Nations , we mean vital role for the United Nations in all aspect of the issue , whether it be humanitarian aid , or whether it be help to stand up a interim authority .
the iraqi people will decide who be on the iraqi interim authority , '' say Bush .
Bush do not spell out how much power the United Nations would have , nor do he elaborate on Washington 's plan to place US official alongside Iraqis in the interim administration .
difference still remain between the United States and Britain , analyst say , over the speed with which Iraq should be hand to a interim iraqi administration , and the extent to which a us-led group of general and former diplomat should effectively run the country .
yet , analyst argue , both Britain and the United States hope they agree vision of a postwar scenario will placate anti-war nation such as France , Germany and Russia .
`` we will move as quickly as possible to place governmental responsibility under the control of a interim authority compose of Iraqis from both inside and outside the country , '' Bush vow at the joint news conference with Blair , add that the interim authority would serve until a permanent government could be choose by the iraqi people .
`` rebuild of Iraq will require the support and expertise of the international community .
we be commit to work with international institution , include the United Nations , which will have a vital role to play in this task , '' Bush add .
Blair also plead the world to avoid `` endless diplomatic wrangle '' over the future of Iraq like the international dispute over a second UN resolution on Iraq that precede the war .
France and Germany , which be most vocal in oppose this US - lead war against Iraq , have be insist that the United Nations should play a central role in the phase of post-war Iraq .
on the unresolved dispute between Europe and the United States , analyst say , Blair might again have to make a difficult choice , but he be very likely to support the United States , which Britain can not afford to fall out with .
MACAO , April 16 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- four Macao resident have be notify by the Health Services that they share the same plane with a taiwanese suspect to have contract severe acute respiratory syndrome -lrb- sars -rrb- on April 8 .
the Health Services urge the four resident to contact the authority immediately to report they health condition .
accord to the World Health Organization -lrb- who -rrb- guideline for suspect case , these four resident need not to be isolate , however , they should seek treatment immediately if they have any sars symptom .
in order to improve the epidemic control , Secretary for Social Affairs and Culture Chui Sai On , who have be name director of the SARS task force by the government , have designate representative from the Health Services and the Center for Disease Prevention and Control to visit neighbor Guangdong Province on Thursday , to learn from Guangdong 's experience and know-how in combate SARS , which have be acknowledge by who .
no suspect SARS case have be find at medical consultation counter at Macao 's three port of entry as of Wednesday .
in case that any sars infection be confirm , the task force will quickly take round-the-clock command and make news release every six hour , Chui say .
JAKARTA , April 23 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- the central Jakarta District Court begin Wednesday the trial of muslim cleric Abu Bakar Ba ' asyir who have be in custody since last October on charge of treason and immigration offens .
Ba'asyir , 64 , be arrest on preliminary charge of involvement in a series of church bombing on the eve of the 2000 Christmas and a alleged plot to assassinate Megawati Soekarnoputri in 1999 , when she be vice president .
he be also charge with immigration offens for have a malaysian citizenship since 1993 .
seven prosecutor read in turn the indictment against Ba'asyir at the makeshift court room in the Meteorology and Geophysics Agency 's office in Central Jakarta .
the authority have move the trial venue for security reason and to allow wider media coverage .
Ba'asyir be not officially charge with the Bali bombing last October , but police say he give he blessing to the Bali perpetrator .
Police believe Ba'asyir be the spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiyah , the terrorist network in Southeast Asia which be widely blame for the Bali bombing .
accord to the Criminal Code , treason be punishable with a possible death penalty .
Ba'asyir have publicly deny any wrongdoing and refuse to answer police question .
ISLAMABAD , April 25 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- `` no one would be allow to live in Pakistan illegally and use its land for achieve they nefarious design , '' Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed say on Friday .
Rashid Ahmed make the remark when he attention be draw to the recent visit by Afghan President Hamid Karzai , accord to the Associated Press of Pakistan .
Rashid say that Pakistan have very good relation with the brotherly country of Afghanistan .
when ask to comment on the trans-national gas pipeline project , he say , four country include Qatar , Turkmenistan and Iran be deliberate upon the project which will go a long way in strengthen the economy of the participate country .
earlier on Thursday , President Pervez Musharraf say Pakistan want peace and stability in Afghanistan as it would be in `` we interest . ''
Pakistan , he say , would benefit immensely from stability in Afghanistan as its trade with central asian country will take place through it .
refer to al-Qaeda , Musharraf say that no non-pakistani would be allow to live in Pakistan without proper document .
`` we have to see if they cause be islamic or in Pakistan 's interest -- they have they own political agenda -- they should not harm Pakistan 's interest . ''
LONDON , May 9 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- three family member of british muslim Omar Sharif , who be want for the April 30 suicide bomb attack in Israel , be remand in custody after appear in a London court on Friday with charge in connection with the blast .
Sharif 's wife Tahari Shad Tabussum , 27 , brother Zahid Hussain Sharif , 46 , and sister Paveen Sharif , 35 , make no application for bail at the court , accord to local report .
all of they be charge Thursday under Section 38 of the Terrorism Act 2000 , which cover failure to disclose information about act of terrorism , say the report .
the sister be also charge under section 62 of the Terrorism Act which cover aid and abet act of terrorism overseas .
israeli authority have claim Sharif , 27 , from Derby , be on the run after fail to blow himself up in the attack on a Tel Aviv bar .
three people be kill and about 50 injure when another Briton , Asif Muhammad Hanif , 21 , from London , detonate explosive strap to he body .
british anti-terror police arrest six people altogether in Derbyshire , central England , and London on May 2 and 3 .
the other three , two man and one woman , have already be release without charge .
BOGOTA , May 12 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia -lrb- FARC -rrb- say Monday that it be prepare to exchange prisoner with the government despite the death of 10 hostage hold by the rebel group .
the FARC seek the exchange of more than 70 politician , soldier and policeman in its control for nearly 500 rebel imprison by the government , say Luis Devia , also know as Raul Reyes , a FARC leader , in a letter send to the program Noticias Uno .
on May 5 , 10 hostage hold by the FARC be kill during a attempt to rescue they by the army .
the victim be Antioquia Governor Guillermo Gaviria , former Defense Minister Gilberto Echeverry and eight soldier .
Reyes say in he letter that the `` guerrilla unit be in the moral obligation of saving and protect life and physical integrity of they prisoner . ''
the rebel `` in any case can not allow to have its prisoner to be take away by enemy force without a military response , '' he add .
the 17,000-strong farc , the largest guerrilla force in Colombia , have be fight a war against the government for more than 40 year , leave 400,000 dead .
it be still hold hundred of hostage include three Americans .
MANILA , May 23 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- the philippine Presidential Palace Friday dismiss as a `` old tune '' depose leader Joseph Estrada 's claim that he be still the country 's legitimate president .
presidential Chief of Staff Rigoberto Tiglao say Estrada 's camp be try to revive the issue on the legality of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo 's administration when this be uphold twice by the Supreme Court .
`` this be a old tune as far as the palace be concern , '' Tiglao say hour after Estrada petition the anti-graft court , the Sandiganbayan , to dismiss the government charge against he , cite `` lack of jurisdiction '' since he be still the president .
meanwhile , the court shrug off the claim of Estrada 's lawyer Alan Paguia that its ruling on the legitimacy of the Arroyo administration be illegal and caution that the tribunal 's decision be final and could not be overturn by the Sandiganbayan .
the Sandiganbayan special division Friday reset for June 16 the resumption of Estrada 's plunder case hearing , which be originally schedule for June 2 .
Estrada , who be oust in a military-backed popular revolt in January 2001 , have be detain for almost two year at the veteran Memorial Medical Center in Metro Manila on plunder charge .
PRAGUE , June 9 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- Czech President Vaclav Klaus on Monday appoint Miroslav Kostelka as the country 's new defense minister to replace Jaroslav Tvrdik who resign from the post in late May .
the decision be make in response to the recommendation of Prime Minister Vladimir Spidla .
Kostelka , 52 , be first deputy defense minister and a ex - general .
at the end of last month , Tvrdik submit he resignation in protest against plan cut in defense spending as part of the government 's finance reform .
under the planned package of public finance reform , only 2.05 percent of the country 's gross domestic product -lrb- gdp -rrb- will be allocate for the defense budget .
Tvrdik say the military reform could not be complete thoroughly with so little money .
Tvrdik , who take over the defense ministry in May 2001 , also announce that he would quit he post in the parliament and give up he position in the rule party Social Democrats .
Prime Minister Spidla say Monday that the ongoing military reform should continue , with regard to the government 's plan public finance reform .
the appointment mark the second change of the cabinet post since the spidla-led government come into power in July 2002 .
WASHINGTON , June 10 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- Sam Waksal , founder of the US pharmaceutical company ImClone Systems be sentence to 87 month in prison Tuesday for insider trading .
Waksal be also order to pay more than 4 million dollar in fine and back tax .
this order come after about two hour ' legal proceedings at the Manhattan courthouse in New York , accord to a tv report .
before the sentence , there have be speculation among analyst on whether Waksal would get leniency because he company have be work on research of cancer drug , a good endeavor in the eye of many people .
ImClone 's Erbitux drug have be recently accept to be effective in help cancer patient .
but the order just release from the courthouse in New York have obviously separate Waksal 's good effort in make new drug from he legal problem .
amid the financial storm last year and the ensue crack down on corporate malfeasance , Waksal plead guilty in October to charge involve he effort to sell a huge block of he company ' s stock in late 2001 .
the attempt to sell the share be just before ImClone share plunge on the news that the Food and Drug Administration reject ImClone 's application to sell the experimental cancer drug , Erbitux .
this incident then trigger legal investigation , which also include the case of a US media and domestic design diva , Martha Stewart .
LUXEMBOURG , June 16 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- Foreign minister of the European Union -lrb- EU -rrb- say here Monday that they fully support stricter nuclear inspection of Iran 's nuclear program by the International atomic Energy Agency -lrb- IAEA -rrb- .
a statement issue at the two-day meeting of the EU foreign minister call on Iran to conclude and implement urgently and unconditionally a additional protocol to the nuclear non - proliferation Treaty allow for short-notice inspection of suspect nuclear site in the country .
it say that the EU be seriously concerned about Iran 's nuclear activity and urge it to cooperate fully with the IAEA .
`` this would be a significant step in demonstrate Iran 's state peaceful intention with regard to its nuclear program , '' the seven-point statement say .
George Papandreou , foreign minister of Greece , the current holder of the EU presidency , say he be in personal contact with IAEA Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei and would follow he lead on this matter .
EU foreign minister reiterate that improve trade link with Iran should be conditional on Iran 's cooperation .
they also say that the EU be closely follow the nuclear issue and would revert it to the forthcoming debate of the IAEA meeting on Tuesday .
JINAN , June 24 -lrb- Xinhua -rrb- China late this year will start build a nuclear-powered desalinator project in Yantai City in east China 's Shandong Province , with a design capacity of produce 52 million ton of fresh water a year .
official with the Development Planning Commission of the Shandong provincial government say the project , to be build in cooperation with Qinghua University , would alleviate water shortage in the city and other part of the Shandong Peninsula .
Yantai and other part of Shandong suffer acute water shortage due to drought in recent year , change climate and other reason .
approve by the State Development and Reform Commission , the project be expect to cost 1.6 billion yuan -lrb- nearly 200 million US dollar -rrb- .
Zhang Zuoyi , director of the nuclear Energy Technology and Design Institute attach to Qinghua University , be quote in Monday 's Beijing Evening News as say the fresh water to be produce from the project will cost 3.75 yuan per ton , much less than the cost of water from exist source .
the project be expect to use a 200-megawatt nuclear-powered reactor design by the institute , accord to the paper .
the project would be complete and operational in 2007 , it say .
Yasser Arafat declare brain Dead Clayton ... rapidly dry Oasis in a Worldwide Desert of Insanity Fri , 5 Nov 2004 11:19:21 +1000 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead just what the world need this week ... more palestinian instability !
Uncle Dollar Bill Fri , 05 Nov 2004 05:30:37 GMT Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on fri , 5 Nov 2004 11:20:13 +1000 in alt.atheism , `` Clayton ... rapidly dry Oasis in a Worldwide Desert of insanity '' -lrb- c...@SPAMBLOCKphonyemail.com -rrb- defy the status quo and scrawl upon the toilet stall : ... which be still greater than the chance that the U.S. will ever come to its sens .
would not it be something if these formerly `` militant extremist '' muslim regieme become more liberal while the U.S. become ... ah ... never mind .
-- l8r , Uncle Dollar Bill `` opinion be like people - every asshole have one ... '' Vic Sagerquist Fri , 05 Nov 2004 03:20:44 GMT Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on 04 Nov 2004 , Daniel Kolle drop trou , fart , whirl , then shout : cancer be not a happy thing .
stomach cancer 's get to hurt like hell .
I wonder what Allah be think when he allow that .
Robibnikoff Thu , 4 Nov 2004 22:28:11 -0500 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead my husband 's uncle die of it about a year before we get marry .
it be awful :-lrb- -- --------- Robyn Resident Witchypoo # 1557 Daniel Kolle 5 Nov 2004 09:28:46 -0800 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead I have always wonder if cancer would hurt or not .
I take it that it do .
raven1 fri , 05 Nov 2004 19:28:51 GMT Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on 5 Nov 2004 09:28:46 -0800 , DKo...@hotmail.com -lrb- Daniel Kolle -rrb- write : I watch two uncle die of lung cancer -lrb- which give I the impetus to give up smoking for good -rrb- , and a close friend die of melanoma .
it be not a death I would wish on my worst enemy .
Uncle Dollar Bill Sat , 06 Nov 2004 03:41:56 GMT Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on 5 Nov 2004 09:28:46 -0800 in alt.atheism , DKo...@hotmail.com -lrb- Daniel Kolle -rrb- defy the status quo and scrawl upon the toilet stall : consider yourself lucky that you have to wonder about it .
I become familiar with _ that _ issue at a very young age .
and many time thereafter .
to say that it `` hurt like hell '' be a understatement , at least the kind my family have be prone to .
when you see the woman who raise you suck desperately on a dropper of liquid morphine like it be she own mother 's teat , you be just never quite the same .
the `` woman who raise I '' be not actually my mother , but my grandmother , btw .
-- l8r , Uncle Dollar Bill `` opinion be like people - every asshole have one ... '' Meteorite Debris Sat , 6 Nov 2004 16:38:46 +1030 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on fri , 05 Nov 2004 05:30:37 GMT the ET form know as Uncle Dollar Bill -lrb- UncleDollarB...@SpamMeNot .
com -rrb- send a radio signal across the vast expanse of deep space - .
_ .
-- .
_ .
-- .
_ .
-- .
_ .
-- .
_ .
-- .
_ .
there be the free press in Qatar , al Jeezera but its ' office in Kabul and Baghdad be bomb by Americans .
only one thing the neocon hate more than despotism in the middle east and that be freedom of the press in the middle east .
-- epicurus1 * at * optusnet * dot * com * dot * au apatriot # 1 , atheist # 1417 , Chief EAC prophet Apatriotism Yahoo Group `` properly read , the Bible be the most potent force for atheism ever conceive . ''
- Isaac Asimov Meteorite Debris Sat , 6 Nov 2004 16:41:52 +1030 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain Dead Might just be conspiracy stuff but OTOH Mossad do have a reputation for highly effective operation .
I do not think it be likely but I would not be surprise either .
Therion Ware Sat , 06 Nov 2004 07:17:15 +0000 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on sat , 6 Nov 2004 16:41:52 +1030 in alt.atheism , Meteorite Debris -lrb- Meteorite Debris -lrb- a...@yahoo.com -rrb- -rrb- say , direct the reply to alt.atheism anyone remember Georgi Markov ?
-- `` do Unto other as you would have Them do Unto you . ''
- Attrib : Pauline Reage .
inexpensive VHS & other video to cd/dvd conversion ?
see : -lrb- -rrb- .
35.00 get you video on dvd .
all post to this email address be automatically delete without be read .
** atheist poster child # 1 ** # 442 .
Bob Dog 6 Nov 2004 04:25:09 -0800 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead the Palestinians want land to live on , while Sharon want no Palestinians live on the land .
when the world finally grow the ball to criticize israeli terrorism , we will see peace .
but as long as `` criticism be anti-semitism '' be the mentality , do not act surprised that the Palestinians object to the Lebensraum -lrb- a/k/a settlement -rrb- and israeli terrorism -lrb- bombing , shoot farmer in they field , bulldoze crop , destroy school , shooting child , etc. etc. etc. -rrb- .
George Carlin say it best : `` let 's not have a double standard , one standard will do just fine . ''
apply the same standard to Israel that we apply to the Palestinians .
Bob Dog Rune Sat , 06 Nov 2004 15:25:41 +0100 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on sat , 6 Nov 2004 16:41:52 +1030 , Meteorite Debris -lrb- a...@yahoo.com -rrb- write : I think more likely , one of he palestinian rival do it .
if the israelis want to kill Arafat , I think they would have better way .
unless of course they want it to be succinct so they could not be blame .
but one thing that be sure about the palestinian be that no matter what happen , you can be sure they will blame it on Israel .
Rune Mon , 08 Nov 2004 02:00:23 +0100 Re : Yasser Arafat declare brain dead on 6 Nov 2004 04:25:09 -0800 , bg12...@apexmail.com -lrb- Bob Dog -rrb- write : I guess the fact that you live in the US have skew you view .
Bill after bill of condemnation have pass in the United Nations by overwhelming majority .
regular as clockwork , the US veto they .
demonstration be routinely hold against israel all over the world .
Israel 's only friend in the world be the United States .
here in ` the rest of the world ' it be the other way around .
when you be a muslim you be untouchable , when you be israeli , you be fair game .
when in it be 60 year long history have Israel ever step up the conflict , or cast the first stone ?
everyone have the right to defend themselves .
even jew .
May I interpret this as you approve of the nazi extermination of slavic people ?
the extermination of kosovar albanian by native serb ?
come talk to I once you decide a jewish and a muslim life be worth the same .
Re : good morning Iraq D. Spencer Hines Sun , 30 Jan 2005 23:48:53 -0000 Re : good morning Iraq it be a great day for the iraqi people ... and a vindication for American Foreign Policy and National Security Policy .
and it be a great day for President George W. Bush and he Vision , Leadership , Excellent Management Talents , Endurance , Faith and Intelligence .
compare & Contrast GWB 's Vision , Leadership , Excellent Management Talents , Endurance , Faith and Intelligence with LBJ 's Lack of same in the Vietnam War .
Teddy Kennedy have not a clue about that ... .
do not forget to ridicule and excoriate the Germans , the Russians , the Chinese , the Left-Wing Spaniards and the Supine Appeasement-Oriented American Left-Wing Democrats as Well -- NOT just the french .
they all fought AGAINST this result every step of the way .
D. Spencer Hines lux et veritas et libertas vires et honor tiglath 31 Jan 2005 10:40:52 -0800 Re : good morning Iraq Let 's see ... there two main quality to be desire in a commander-in-chief , generalship and leadership .
because in the United States the commander-in-chief be a purely political post , generalship be usually undertake by the general proper under the Commander-in-Chief , provide it be understand that the commander-in-chief be ultimately responsible and accountable for the outcome of he general 's generalship .
generalship involve the technical skill of intelligence gathering , strategic and tactical planning , and the communication of order .
leadership can be less rigidly define and be concern less with coordination than motivation and how a commander seek to inspire he man to fight harder and endure worse privation in order to beat the enemy .
President Bush generalship have prove deficient .
he planning for the war be inadequate and he monitoring of the war after the invasion fail to correct course in the face of the change in circumstance bring by a strong and unexpected insurgency .
the Commander-in-Chief 's generalship can suffice to motivate man if they be higly confident that he be a very capable and skilled general .
Eisenhower be in that position .
that have not be the case with President Bush , who unleash hell act on faulty intelligence , fail to find any wmd , and leave we boy at war want for armor .
that be not the sort of generalship that on rational grounds alone motivate man to march to possible death .
men unmotivated by bad generalship can still be motivate by exceptional leadership .
in theory , motivation be best carry out by a commander fight alongside he man .
make no mistake , even when we do not desire a president with a preference for personal combat , the need for a commander to be see to share danger with he man be as imperative today as it be in time of Alexander of Macedon .
that be why we look at the military record of we leader .
John Kennedy , George H. Bush , and even John Kerry , the loser , have distinguish military career that be apt substitute for lead man in battle .
the knowledge that the commander-in-chief once face grave danger in war bravely can be the animate spirit of troops face the same danger .
George W. Bush have no distinguished military career .
in fact , CBS and carrier landing notwithstanding , there be every indication that in the peak of youth he avoid the danger of war as much as he could .
that be not the sort of leadership that on emotional grounds alone motivate man to march to possible death .
some might say that George W. Bush be neither a general nor a soldier , he be a politician .
he be in charge of Grand Strategy and he delegate the rest .
true .
but as commander-in-chief he be the Ultimate General and the First Soldier .
George W. Bush , the politician , be not very good at grand strategy either .
the aim of grand strategy be a prosperous and secure peace , and by he several blunder over the psychology of he opponent , the political and economic effect of he action , and the failure to erradicate terrorism and even capture he most wanted terrorist , George W. Bush , he have fail to realize the aim of grand strategy .
I will be glad if Iraq become a truly democratic country .
but will it ?
and at what price ?
be you willing to pay with a deficit of billion , thousand of Americans dead or badly wound , and the unmeasurable disruption that a foreign war cause to the life of we nation at all level , for each country in the world that be in the grip of a tyrant ?
I be not .
let those country grow a generation with the gut and the willingness to originate democratic change and I will support join other nation to back the ef .
but unilaterally , or worse lead a coalition feature tyranny , effect such change remain a bad idea , Iraq 's election notwithstanding .
George W. Bush do not do well in the industrial private sector where success be measure by return on investment .
Government suit such a man perfectly ; there be no balance sheet to worry about .
there be every indication that the new ruler of Iraq will do business as usual under a democratic varnish .
the interim government do not hesitate to torture opponent , just like Saddam do .
the Shiites will be no different .
that will be we return on investment .
Iraq wield democracy like Britney Spears wield the electric guitar , it look cool and trendy but she have no idea of how to play it .
member of the uacc sue h thu , 24 Feb 2005 12:38:06 -0500 member of the uacc there be a lady by the name of Irene Sokolas that be sell on Ebay under VARIOUS name .
she be say she be a member of the UACC .
she be sell forgery .
I have contact the uacc and tell they about it so they can check the auction -lrb- she be be do this a long time -rrb- and to tell I if she be actually a register member .
I would suggest everyone read the body of the entire item they be bid on .
everything .
if you see she name , stay clear .
no matter which ID she be use .
also , I have see in the past , other resell item usue she coa 's .
be careful .
I be miff the uacc would not check into people before allow they to be member if in fact she be a member .
but I will reserve judgement till they respond .
this make one really skeptical .
but if you see a uacc member on Ebay , do not automatically assume they be legit .
contact the uacc before buy and ask if they be a member .
if you suspect something be fake , do not take it for grant it be legit because a uacc number be attach to it .
in case where the member claim and be a uacc member , still question and then if you suspect there be a number of fake by that person , do not hesitate to let the uacc and Ebay know .
Hope I spare someone here of potential grief and save someone some money !
sue h thu , 24 Feb 2005 13:16:25 -0500 Re : member of the uacc ooop ; spelling of lady last name be off .
it be : Sorokos bjwebb3...@aol.com 24 Feb 2005 12:33:29 -0800 Re : member of the uacc the only thing that be a uacc member mean be that they pay membership due .
it do not make they honest seller .
uacc register dealer be more carefully check out and should be consider to be honest .
of course , there be exception to everything .
here be a link to the list of uacc register dealer :
Indonesia warn about tsunamis EW Tue , 28 Dec 2004 09:09:36 -0500 Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami `` Minutes after a massive earthquake rock the indian ocean on Sunday , international ocean monitor know that a tsunami would likely follow .
but they do not know whom to tell .
`` we put out a bulletin within 20 minute , technically as fast as we could do it , '' say Jeff LaDouce of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .
LaDouce say e-mail be dispatch to indonesian official , but he do not know what happen to the information . ''
it look more like the indonesian official be not sit at they computer or do not have they email client set for 10 minute check for new mail .
email !
for Heaven 's sake , get with the real world .
it be too bad those NOAA people have not use the telephone .
I wonder if the -lrb- few -rrb- live they could have save if they would use a modicum of common sense will prey on they mind .
Joe727 Tue , 28 Dec 2004 14:46:35 GMT Re : Indonesia warn about tsunamis Well , I have yet to hear that scientist from any other country even make the attempt the american scientist make .
perhaps the indonesian government should have take step to set up a hotline of sort that could be use in case of such emergency .
as the article note , the american scientist do not know who to contact .
that be hardly they problem , let alone they fault .
Joe Peter Tue , 28 Dec 2004 09:53:06 -0500 Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami EMBASSY + TELEPHONE -- Peter scientist sometimes lack common sense joe727 tue , 28 Dec 2004 15:26:51 GMT Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami and you pick up the phone in the embassy .
a voice on the other end of the line say he be a scientist with NOAA and that a tsunami be bear down on you coastal village and resort .
thousand could die .
how would you react to such a call ?
I think so .
all the more reason that the indonesian government should have take step to set up a hotline of sort that could be use in case of such emergency .
Joe Eugene Gallagher Tue , 28 Dec 2004 10:38:02 -0500 Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami the Boston Globe point out that New England have no system in place to warn resident of tidal wave , which be know to happen off New England .
sediment slump on the continental slope could trigger a tsunamai affect Newfoundland to Georgia .
Joe727 Tue , 28 Dec 2004 15:47:40 GMT Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami the entire East Coast of the U.S. do not have a tsunami warning system .
Joe William Asher 28 Dec 2004 16:36:47 GMT Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami on the other hand , if you be a scientist at NOAA and be into save people from tsunami , you would think you might have figure out beforehand who you might call if you do get some advanced warning of such a event .
also , the indonesian government probably have no idea that NOAA could give they advanced warning of tsunami so how could they know they should set up a hotline .
so it cut both way , the indonesian government should have do some prior planning , but so too should the NOAA scientist .
you can bet they be figure out who they should have call next time .
-- Bill `` 20/20 Hindsight '' Asher Joe727 Tue , 28 Dec 2004 17:00:23 GMT Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami it be not the responsibility of NOAA to set up hotline to government around the world .
the indonesian government should have contact the U.S. State Department and provide U.S. official with the contact info .
Joe EW Tue , 28 Dec 2004 12:24:30 -0500 Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami do you think they warn the USAF boy in diego Garcia ?
it be highest point be only 20 ' above sea level .
if the seab slope upward near it , one might expect nothing remains of the base and its personnel .
Peter Tue , 28 Dec 2004 15:34:40 -0500 Re : Indonesia warn about tsunami fwik the indian ocean be not consider a tsunami prone area .
hopefully we will learn something from this and put some reasonable warning system in place .
we just learn that we friend 's daughter when to Thailand to visit she father after the wave hit .
there have be no contact with she since she leave .
-- Peter
Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
Chris Tsao 19 Nov 2004 04:31:32 GMT Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
I be research Meg Tilly on the internet and thus accidentally find out that Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
this be document in a few web site .
I use to wonder if Meg Tilly be part chinese because of she eye , so now I wonder more .
well , be they ??????????
how tall be Meg Tilly ?
I can not find any web site that state how tall she be !!!!
Chris Tsao 19 Nov 2004 05:13:17 GMT Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
it say that she be multi-racial at this link : Chris Tsao 19 Nov 2004 05:18:18 GMT Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
one bit of trivia that have be ask a lot concern Meg 's ` ethnicity ' .
well , for the longest time this be a topic she and she sister Jennifer seem to avoid , but a few month back , Jennifer announce to the world that they father be chinese .
so , that should answer all of those question .
personally it have never make much difference to I - she be who and what she be !
oh .
.
!
and for all of you who have be ask how TALL she be - a article about Meg in the January 1984 issue of ` seventeen ' magazine state she be 5 ft 6 inch .
lady Chatterly Fri , 19 Nov 2004 5:41:30 GMT Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
Gads , never mind , she put on too good a front for now , you will see later .
-- Lady Chatterly `` this must be a pay poster .
it be the only thing that can logically explain they reluctance to be coherent . ''
-- Meldon The Bride Fri , 19 Nov 2004 08:29:32 -0800 Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
they be part asian .
what be the big deal ???
why be this so hard for you to believe and such a revelation ??
fan1 fri , 19 Nov 2004 14:04:52 GMT Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
regardless , she be by far the better actor of the two .
parismom fri , 19 Nov 2004 10:01:51 -0500 Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
which one be in `` the big chill ? ''
she be the more talented of the two , imo .
parismom -- `` Undoubtedly , some people can only exalt they own belief by tear down the belief of other .
it be a trait of the insecure .
I think that one belief system be personal and private . ''
- usenet denizen Doomella Fri , 19 Nov 2004 17:23:12 GMT Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
oh my goodness ... I never even realize there be two of they till now !
the Tilly actress I * know * just have this way of sometimes look really good , sometimes like a bloated alcoholic sexpot who have spend way too much time on the barstool .
mystery solve !
OzzieAnnie Sat , 20 Nov 2004 08:45:01 +1100 Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
that be Meg .
there be a third sister too , not in show biz , the youngest of the 3 I think , forget she name .
football , you bet !
Fri , 19 Nov 2004 21:10:45 -0600 Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
well , Jennifer be certainly far sexier than Meg .
Meg be sorta like the female Steve Buschemi .
Homely , but a good actor and well respect .
Jennifer be still smokin ' hot at 46 .
Smoot Sat , 20 Nov 2004 09:49:42 -0500 Re : Jennifer Tilly be bear Jennifer Chan .
why be this so ????
Meg be also the one who have a child by Colin Firth .
Rebecca
Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction moria fri , 18 Feb 2005 16:20:11 GMT Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction Lovely , she refuse a autopsy which could prove how she husband die , but then she turn around and make accusation like this against he treatment , and in effect , he doctor .
this make I super piss off .
the sypmtom of a massive allergic reaction and of a systemic infection be completely different .
yet suddenly , she be a expert .
statement like this on show like Oprah , who love to spread medical ignorance , be completely irresponsible .
Karen 18 Feb 2005 09:41:42 -0800 Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction I do not see this as a accusation but a explanation .
people can have allergic reaction to med they have not react to before without anyone know it will happen .
it be the exposure to the substance that cause the allergy to form .
like people walk through poison ivy half they life then suddenly have a bad reaction to it .
like the thousand of people develop allergy to latex these day , etc. .
I see that show and do not think she be accuse anyone of anything , more try to explain to people why he die so suddenly .
she mention several time how wonderful he doctor and nurse and therapist have be and mention they by name .
aee1...@yahoo.com 18 Feb 2005 10:11:49 -0800 Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction there be no accusation by she .
she say there be a couple of drug that they have use with Chris in the past to treat he infection with no problem , and they would use they again and he would have a allergic reaction .
it happen a lot .
she say she do not want a autopsy because there be no blame , she know it be just he body shut down .
drug he be not allergic to in the past would suddenly cause massive problem when they try to use they for a new infection .
she have nothing but praise and gratitude for all he doctor , nurse and care giver .
moria fri , 18 Feb 2005 18:19:14 GMT Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction again , a true allergic reaction and a infection have different symptom .
she be say all the doctor and other professional be wrong and she be right .
also , if any drug cause adverse effect , those effect be suppose to be report to the FDA so future drug user can be alert to posible consequence .
if she truely believe what she be say -lrb- and wa not just talk out of she ass and probably display she denial about she husband 's illness -rrb- she would allow proper datum to be gather so it could be use to help other .
Carrie Fri , 18 Feb 2005 14:15:29 -0500 Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction Christopher Reeve have a rare disorder call Mastocytosis .
drug sensitivity be one of the difficulty of that disorder .
since they know he have it , that be probably why she be not question this issue .
I often wonder how he be do with all the med because of he illness , which develop before he paralyze accident .
it be actually a testament to he stamina and he doctor that he be able to survive as long as he do with this disorder complicate he care .
Karen 18 Feb 2005 11:59:26 -0800 Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction I be not sure about this disagreement you be speak of between she version and the doctor version of he cause of death .
maybe the dr.s have hypothesize possibility at the time of death and in the month since then , they may think of other reason I do not know .
I know about allergic reaction and med , I have be a nurse for 20 year .
and I get a little defensive myself when a hear a layperson -lrb- although she probably have more knowledge than most about she husband 's diagnosis and treatment -rrb- talk like a expert on tv without know all the detail .
but as I say , I see the show and do not get that feeling at all that she be be in any way accusatory or blame .
she also be not come off as a know-it-all .
this part of the interview be very off-hand and informal feeling , more like gosh , I do not think we will ever know , maybe it be this , it could have be that .
it be more that she know many people care about she husband and want to know what he last hour be like .
I know not everyone be enthral with Dana Reeve , but she have win many people 's respect .
people be interested to know how she be do after have lose such a big part of she life , and this really be more what the interview be about .
maryanne kehoe sit , 19 Feb 2005 20:33:41 -0500 Re : Christopher Reeve could have die from a allergic reaction what I think be quite appalling from what Dana say on the Oprah show be that the doctor want to pull the life support from Chris * without she be there .
* what in god 's green earth would make a medical professional say such a heartless thing to a soon-to-be-grieving widow ?
that doc should lose he medical license -- what a bastard .
Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
mpoconnor7 21 Nov 2004 18:39:36 GMT Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
there have always be that urban legend that the israeli secret police murder the Shah of Iran by infect he with plutonium , which manifest itself into terminal lung cancer .
Michael O'Connor - Modern Renaissance Man `` the likelyhood of one individual be right increase in a direct proportion to the intensity with which other try to prove he wrong . ''
Erik L. 21 Nov 2004 23:14:36 GMT Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
loony Arthur Balzofiore : 1953 - 2004 : rest in Peace Erik L. Bob Feigel Mon , 22 Nov 2004 14:35:30 +1300 Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
on 21 Nov 2004 18:39:36 GMT , mpoconn...@aol.comnojunk -lrb- mpoconnor7 -rrb- write : I do not doubt that this method have be use to remove various thorn over the year , but why on earth would Israel have want to get rid of the Shah ?
b `` when weave net , all thread count . ''
- Charlie Chan ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ wax-up and drop-in of Surfing 's Golden year : -lrb- -rrb- Evan Hulka 22 Nov 2004 13:55:30 -0800 Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
I do not mean to suggest that I agree with anything David Frum say , but these arafat-had-aids allegation remind I of what happen with the late israeli singer Ofra Haza , where there be a lot of speculation , a mysterious death from a `` blood disease , '' and then it come out eventually that she would die of AIDS .
-lrb- although I would think the israeli media , who be blame for hush up Haza 's cause of death , would take a unique pleasure in make the most of Arafat 's , if all this be true . -rrb-
Hulka J.D. Baldwin Mon , 22 Nov 2004 21:56:48 +0000 -lrb- UTC -rrb- Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
in the previous article , Bill Schenley -lrb- stray...@ma.rr.com -rrb- write : there be a say about gift horse that come to mind .
-- _ + _ from the catapult of | if anyone disagree with any statement I make , I _ | 70 | ___ :-rrb- = -rcb- - J.D. Baldwin | be quite prepared not only to retract it , but also \ / bald...@panix.com | to deny under oath that I ever make it .
- t. lehrer *** ~ ~ ~ ~ ----------------------- ------------------------------ ------------------ Rich Clancey wed , 24 Nov 2004 22:16:34 +0000 -lrb- UTC -rrb- Re : Yasser Arafat Murdered ?
no , they do not .
the `` suspicious evidence '' be simply that Arafat do not look particularly near death when he be remove from he hq .
he appear alert and function , certainly not a week away from death from waste .
who really benefit from he death ?
surely not the Israelis , who have he trap and function as a convenient target for blame .
be Kissinger Associates try to start a `` palestinian civil war '' like they lebanese one a generation ago ?
it be hardly a similar situation .
-- rich clancey mathematical jiggery-pokery be Truth and Truth be mathematical jiggery-pokery .
that be all ye need to know .
clear Channel worship we great fuehrer ... er ... Leader Harry Hope Mon , 06 Dec 2004 23:35:23 GMT Clear Channel worship we great fuehrer ... er ... Leader one of the hallmark of a good totalitarian leader be the tendency to jump into a military uniform at the drop of a hat -lrb- although stuff sock in you crotch while do it be a innovation apparently dream up by George W. Bush -rrb- .
another be to make sure there be plenty of very big picture of yourself all over the place .
fortunately for we great Leader he do not have to do this himself , because he be get one of the biggest media company in the country to do it for he .
clear Channel - home to rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity - own over 1,200 radio station and 57 television station in America .
they also own a lot of billboard .
want to know what they do with they billboard when nobody 's pay to use they ?
the picture be take off i-4 north of downtown Orlando by DUer davhill .
the text at the bottom read , `` not authorize by any candidate or candidate 's committee .
a political public service message bring to you by Clear Channel . ''
do you know that one of the largest media company in the country be in the business of bring you `` political public service message ? ''
I either .
truth be tell we originally think that this picture be fake , but we have to eat crow when Clear Channel release a statement which read in part , `` Clear Channel Outdoor market be operate locally .
local manager determine what copy to use when a location have time that be not sell to a advertiser . ''
that statement be make after Clear Channel deny the billboard exist , of course .
Florida 's not the only state to suffer Clear Channel 's `` political public service message '' by the way - check out this one from Arizona : curse you , liberal media !
from democratic underground Harry CB Mon , 6 Dec 2004 19:06:38 -0500 you be such a cry baby , fuehrer lover Harry you be such a cry baby , Clear Channel should post this every where : rightards_r_parasites mon , 6 Dec 2004 19:00:30 -0800 Re : Clear Channel worship we great fuehrer ... er ... Leader you notice how there be not a peep from any of the rightard out there .
Bush administration quietly stop destroy chemical and biological weapon j mon , 24 Jan 2005 05:40:37 -0600 Bush administration quietly stop destroy chemical and biological weapon unnoticed by anyone else , the Bush administration have quietly ditched program to destroy America 's biggest-in-the-world stockpile of chemical and biological weapon .
eight place in the US be use to stockpile chemical weapon -- include blister agent , riot agent , and the dreaded nerve agent .
in these eight location , hundred of thousand of artillery round , bomb , and rocket be stack in both open and bunker storage , some of they leak they contents and all of the very deadly .
Storage location include : -- Anniston Army Depot , Anniston , AL -- Rocky Mountain Arsenal , Pueblo , CO -- Bluegrass Army Depot , Lexington , KY -- Aberdeen Proving Grounds , md -- Toelle Army Depot , Toelle , UT -lrb- the granddaddy of they all -rrb- Destruction be underway in Anniston where the Dept of Defense build and be operate a incinerator to burn weapon located there .
plan be underway to build destruction facility at all other location but now the Bush junta have remove from its propose defense budget for fiscal year 2006 all but the minimum funding for these destruction project .
plan to destroy chemical weapon be now stop , except for a small test program at Toelle .
contractor -lrb- Bechtel be the main contractor -rrb- have be tell to stop all design and construction work and the re-assign they people -- the destruction program be dead . -rrb-
can anyone spell `` W. M. D. '' ?
can anyone tell I which nation in the world own the most WMD ?
-lrb- hint : it be neither Iraq , Iran , nor North Korea -- none of the famous `` Axis of Evil . '' -rrb-
you do not suppose they have stop destroy these weapon because they plan to use they ?
the old wedding problem Lee Paulson Mon , 3 Jan 2005 08:54:47 -0500 the old wedding problem two of my nephew be exclude from they brother 's wedding this weekend because they be not lds .
of interest , neither go to the reception either .
both be extremely hurt , particularly since they know they brother could have have a civil ceremony and then be marry in the temple later .
I be offend because one of those nephew and I be very close , and he be really upset .
the groom say `` it be not quite what I have expect . ''
the bride be not quite able to speak in front of stranger , so I do not know what she think .
she do tell my niece that she think she husband be a good catch -- rm attend BYU and all that .
I get a sort of a icky feeling when I realize the only people who do attend the kid 's wedding be he unmedicated bi-polar mother and he father , who suffer from Alzheimers .
-- regards , Lee , the James , uM , feminist the religion that be afraid of science dishonor God and commit suicide .
Ralph Waldo Emerson Peggy Tatyana Mon , 3 Jan 2005 10:17:10 -0700 Re : the old wedding problem that be sad , Lee .
I really think it be time for the church to admit that a civil ceremony follow by a temple seal reach the same goal , often in a more loving way , than insist that only the seal be worth do .
a change of that sort would be very simple to implement , and most church member would like it better than allow non-lds family member into the temple , which would actually be my preference .
there be be a thread recently in one of the exmo fora about a woman whose bishop , who she have be plan to have marry she , be go out of town , so she ask the stake president , who she do not know well .
he insist that he need to make the point , as part of perform the ceremony , that she really need to be marry in the temple , even though she fiance be not lds .
she ultimately decline he service .
how to get the message across to young people that consider the feeling of they family be just as important as be seal for time and all eternity ?
I do not know .
it would have to be some sort of grassroot movement , I think , since it be not likely to come through official , correlate channel .
Peggy -- A dog can never tell you what she know from the smell of the world , but you know , watch she , that you know almost nothing .
-- Mary Oliver RBradfo...@kc.rr.com Mon , 03 Jan 2005 17:46:43 GMT Re : the old wedding problem * shrug * I choose to have a civil ceremony largely because my wife and I be both convert and a temple ceremony would have exclude both family completely .
from a family standpoint it sound liek a good decision , harmony and all that ... plus the temple ceremony could be seal a year later .
unfortunately we start off on the wrong foot for a lot of reason and the marriage do not last .
I can not help but wonder if perhaps we do ourselves a diservice by not get sealedi ntially , and make we marriage a gospel focus one .
who be to say .
it be a tough decision to make and despite the feeling I myself cave I feel people should be understand of the rationale .
for my part if we have be seal intially there simply would not have be anyone there and both we family have harsh feelign about the church as be , and a sealign would have only create more disharmony .
for my part though , I think we start the marriage with a compromise and dein ourselves tremendous blessing and ultimately pay the price .
Peggy Tatyana Mon , 3 Jan 2005 11:34:00 -0700 Re : the old wedding problem hmm ... I wonder how many success story be out there from people who choose to have a civil ceremony , and go on later to be happily seal .
I know that be what happen with my own parent , largely because they decision to get marry and my father 's decision to join the church come very close together , and they do not want to wait the year until he would be able to enter the temple .
they be still together after more than 55 year .
divorce be really stupid ... dogbirdh...@yahoo.com 13 Jan 2005 09:51:33 -0800 divorce be really stupid ... I think divorce be really stupid .
it will take I awhile to get to think stream that get I to that think today .
First off , I be remarry , divorce 3 year ago .
I love my wife , and the kid get along just fine .
I do not like my exwife .
but there be a time when I do like she ; in fact I love she very much in spite of she numerous flaw , chief among those flaw be that she be a narcicist .
but we all have some sort of personality problem ... .
my wife belong to a support group , and just for fun , they all google they hubby ex 's .
somehow , this lead I to google my ex 's boyfriend , call he B. and there he be , talk about plan with he wife and kid .
wow .
to I , b be just this one dimensional guy that be be drag along by my exwife .
now , he turn out to have a 3 dimensional life too .
I guess we all do .
I would like to take he out for a beer sometime .
it would be fun .
I wonder what happenn to b 's son ?
my kid never mention b have a son .
b 's son be apparently 16 year old , same age as my daughter .
I wonder if b have a huge messy divorce , and he ex take the kid out of state .
my ex threaten that .
Ouch .
divorce really suck .
I have my kid almost 50/50 these day , but it be a huge messy post divorce compromise that take a year to complete .
I wonder if b have to go through some of the same kind of shit ?
perhaps my exwife have more sympathy for what its like to be a guy on the receive end of a divorce now ?
Ok , keep googling .
oh my , the plot thicken .
I find b 's exwife .
very articulate writer .
this be really humorous .
she write a article about a divorce support group , end it with something about Mrs. B be happily married but she be impress by the divorce support group .
and that be only 4 year ago !
Mr. and Mrs. B have a real life too .
they share dream together , raise a kid , and probably have a lot of fun together .
now I be even more curious about the b 's kid .
she still live in town here .
maybe there be some sort of terrible tragedy ???
I will have to ask about b 's kid when my own kid switch off next week .
sometimes we want to see marriage one dimensionally .
either its bad or good .
that be total bullshit .
I know my first marriage have a lot of good adventure , a lot of friendship , a lot of love .
oh , yeah , it be not perfect .
my exwife be a total pain in the ass much of the time , and I try to let she do what she want , sometimes I could not .
but , even to the end , we love each other .
and now , I see the lose family tie .
she be lose my family , I be slowly drift out of touch with she family .
we both build new life .
New live .
but you know , as long as the kid be share , you can not total get this exspouse out of you mental psyche .
they say it take one year for every two that you be marry .
I believe that .
meanwhile , life go on .
my wife 's name be M. we be go to a bed and breakfast this weekend , to get away , relax .
m and I be slowly build a history of we own together .
we share adventure together , we share adventure with my kid , and with we dog .
and , I take lot of picture .
I really have not change very much from who I be before .
although , the dog thing be really post divorce .
lot and lot of picture .
sometimes I look at the old photo , before divorce .
we smile together , laugh , hug .
I be one of the first digital camera user , and I have too many photo from my first marriage .
sometimes I feel like I be race to create enough photo of my new life to outweigh the long history of my first life .
that be go to take awhile ... luckily , we flaw human being live long live , and digital camera take lot and lot of picture !
if my exwife do not dump b , maybe they will wind up stay together , maybe even get marry .
I think that would be nice .
and they too will begin the process of rebuild they `` together '' life .
I be assume there be some humanity beneath my exwife 's narcicistic shell , but I do believe there be .
b seem like a decent enough person too .
so , b and my ex will be do the same thing that I be do .
rebuild they life .
anyway , all of this get I back to my original point .
divorce seem really really stupid .
it seem to I , that beneath it all , we all want the same thing .
love , companionship , and a partner for we life 's journy .
none of this make total sense to I .
but I just think I would ramble .
- hike Barbara Sz .
13 Jan 2005 10:49:39 -0800 Re : divorce be really stupid ... you post make I horribly sad .
my ex have that nice new life with the child-bride and the 2 cat and 2 dog and new house and my son primarily live with they even though he end up be at my place 1/2 the time in a 2-week period .
-- I live in a 961 sq. ft. apartment .
my ex have most all of the photo as we son live there and it be he history .
I do get a good bunch of the wedding photo , but my ex refuse to give they all to I say it be `` he life too '' even though I really resent they be under the same roof with he child-bride .
I be sure they be take lot of picture of they trips/vacations/whatever -lrb- at least 2 that I know of -rrb- .
I do not own a camera .
he new inlaw be all former family friend I do not have anything to do with anymore for obvious reason .
he family -lrb- brother , sister , stepmother -rrb- conveniently seem to forget that for almost 20 year I be a member of they family .
there be no gradual `` drift of out touch '' despite the fact that we all live in the same city and my ex BIL and I even work within block of each other .
my family think my ex be pond scum but because my parent be still member at the same church , they have to see my ex and he new wife every week .
my mother take he remarriage harder than I do , I think , because of that .
divorce * be * really stupid .
duh-uh .
especially for those of we who still have so many year -lrb- if one year for every 2 marry , then I have still get another 7 or so -rrb- to go to get we head screw back on and find some sort of life that rival what we have or what we ex have or what you and you ex have .
so far , this be not it .
-- Barbara Sz .
Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise Timothy Daniels Sat , 26 Feb 2005 20:50:40 -0800 Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise Dell be involve in a class action suit for `` bait and switch '' , where a nurse claim Dell switch part and charge she for the more expensive item , and for promise `` easy credit '' for which no one qualify and then charge ridiculously high interest rate .
* TimDaniels * rrr_news Sun , 27 Feb 2005 12:14:24 -0500 Re : Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise it seem someone do not read the credit term , before purchase item , `` buyer ' remorse '' .
and lawyer try to make a buck from it .
Hope federal tort reform get pass by the congress , so we can get rid of these charlatan .
rich/rerat -lrb- rrr news -rrb- -lrb- message rule -rrb- -lrb- -lrb- previous text Snipped to save Bandwidth when appropriate -rrb- -rrb- Christopher Muto Sun , 27 Feb 2005 22:50:32 GMT Re : Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise i agree that the buyer probably do not read the credit term to find themselves with a unexpected rate ... i always see that `` for qualify customer '' in all of they advertisement that probably release they of any wrong do ... but i also believe in the court system so let it take its course and see what happen .
the only tort reform that i think should be do be to cap fee that lawyer be allow to extract for class action suit .
i feel that there be a valuable public service that come from class action suit which be to keep company on the straight and narrow so that they avoid such action ... but from a monetary perspective the only real winner from class action be the lawyer .
i remember once receive a fifty cent check in a envelope with postage of at least half that amount for the great 17 '' monitor class action suit .
Ben Myers Mon , 28 Feb 2005 01:58:35 GMT Re : Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise then there be the class action suit against Gateway bring by some Philadelphia lawyer a number of year ago .
gateway advertise and sticker many of its 486 computer as `` Pentium Ready '' , mean that a special type 3 zif socket Pentium OverDrive could be install and run .
Micronics design the motherboard use by Gateway , and the basis of the design be a prototype Pentium OverDrive with a internal write-through cache , a more conservative cache design .
then Intel change the Pentium OverDrive , and the final version have a write-back cache .
when install in a Gateway system , the chip run slower than slow , maybe about as fast as a IBM AT , and bus-mastering device like nic and scsi card refuse to work .
so the lawyer sue Gateway , and the settlement approve by the judge consist of megabuck for the lawyer and coupon to owner of Gateway 486 computer .
the coupon be good for $ 50 off on the purchase of a Pentium OverDrive processor from Gateway , at its usual inflated price !!!
so , let 's see .
what do a discount coupon for a processor I can not use in my system do for I ?
I wonder how many people gleefully cash in they coupon and buy Pentium OverDrives from Gateway .
Intel eventually compensate by make available a `` interposer '' , a little socketed thingie install between the Pentium OverDrive and the zif socket .
the sole purpose of the interposer be to raise a signal on the CPU to force its cache to operate in the write-thru mode which be compatible with most zif socket 3 486 motherboard .
needless to say , this be the least successful `` OverDrive '' CPU ever do by Intel .
the 486-dx4 overdrive be ok , as be several socket 5 Pentium OverDrives and the socket 8 Pentium pro OverDrive .
finally Intel give up on overdrive ... Ben Myers Nascar12 Sun , 27 Feb 2005 22:45:13 -0500 Re : Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise believe it or not there be company that go over the line and need to be hit with a stick call a law suit .
it seem the fear of law suit be the only thing that keep some of these crooked company in line .
the government sure do not have the resource or desire to pursue they so it be leave to the private sector to protect themselves .
lawyer be bounty hunter of sort .
BTW , I hate lawyer but there be time that they be useful .
some be sleazebag but that can be say of most profession .
there have to be at least a little threat of `` let the company beware '' to maintain a balance otherwise it will be open season on consumer .
Jerry Park Mon , 28 Feb 2005 13:12:59 -0600 Re : Dell sue for `` bait and switch '' and false promise the only people who profit from class action be the lawyer .
since company be go to be sue in class action , regardless of the merit of the case , the threat of a class action be not a detriment .
if you do not believe that , witness the Vioxx lawsuit .
the company make Vioxx determine it might increase mortality and pull it from the market .
because of that , it be be sue .
the company make similar drug -lrb- Celebrex and Bextra -rrb- do not pull they product from the market .
they be not be sue .
do the right thing provide no protection from class action .
all class action do be enrich lawyer and raise cost to everyone .
the cost of class action be factored into the cost of everything you buy .
OT best organization for donation David Case Sat , 8 Jan 2005 23:33:33 -0700 OT best organization for donation I would like to make a donation to help the survivor of the tsunami .
I have a lot of skepticism with the Red Cross and a few other base on horror story I have hear report in the media .
because of this I have always shy away from these national organization and stick with local group .
any thought as to where my money would go the furthest .
appreciate any input .
David Berman Sun , 9 Jan 2005 01:06:03 -0800 Re : OT best organization for donation I have hear mostly positive thing about how the Red Cross be handle they donation , with a very high percentage of the donate fund go directly for relief and not for administrative expense .
so that be the channel we choose for we own donation .
for what it be worth to you , here be some contact information for a few agency that seem to be highly regard .
the habitat for Humanity might be a good one to consider , since they expertise be in build housing , which of course be so beadly need over there at this time : American Red Cross : disaster Relief Fund , P.O. Box 37243 , Washington , DC 20013 .
phone : -lrb-800-rrb-435-7669 habitat for Humanity International : Asia Tsunami Response Fund , 121 habitat St. , Americus , GA 31709-3498 .
phone : -lrb-800-rrb-422-4828 save the Children : attn : Asian Earthquake/Tsunami Relief Fund , 54 Wilton Road , Westport , CT 06880 .
phone : -lrb-800-rrb-728-3843 the Salvation Army : P.O. Box 269 , Alexandria , VA 22313 .
-lrb-800-rrb-725-2763 .
-- best from David in NV Sam D. Sun , 9 Jan 2005 04:47:53 -0800 Re : OT best organization for donation actually more of the money from you donation have a chance of go directly toward its intended purpose than any other charity .
the Red Cross normally deduct 9 % from all deduction for its administratice cost .
it have announce that it will forego the 9 % on donation earmark for tsunami relief and that 100 % of these fund will go directly toward aid .
9 % in administrative cost would place the Red Cross among charity organization make the the most efficient use of donate fund .
the figure for most charity be 10-16 % .
I do not know what negative story about the Red Cross you have hear .
but nothing be 100 % and no organization of any kind be perfect .
just because of its size , which dwarf most other charity , I would assume that the Red Cross may be responsible for proportionately more blunder than most other charitable organization .
------------------------------ ------------ as tragic as the earthquake and tsunami in South Asia have be , it be truly uplifting to see how so many people have open they heart and so generously respond to the call for help toward disaster relief effort .
money from private donation have be flow into charitable relief organization at a unprecedented rate , in some case by million of dollar per hour .
`` tsunami aid '' be the fourth most frequently use term use in internet search last week .
although the need for help be still continue , some individual charity have announce that they have already receive as much in donation as they can put to use for this effort .
the follow announcement be receive from MSF `` doctor without borders/medecins san Frontieres -lrb- MSF -rrb- have receive a extraordinary outpouring of support for the people of South Asia and we be extremely grateful .
as you know , it be very important to MSF that we use you contribution as you intend it to be use .
this be why we want to let you know that at this time , msf estimate that we have receive sufficient fund for we currently foresee emergency response in South Asia . ''
Thomas W. Sun , 09 Jan 2005 21:55:27 +0100 Re : OT best organization for donation I have read that too - unfortunate , because I have work with they in Rwanda and be very impressed with the professionalism of they organization .
they also state that there be lot of place in the world where they continue to work which need plenty of help too - quite a important reminder because other needy area of the world be get less donation now .
so they do not discourage donation to they per se , just not for this specific area .
of course I realize that most people will want to help where the need for it be the most immediate .
all in all , the statement have confirm my view that doctor without border ia a very professional operatoin .
Thomas W. Don Strevel Sun , 9 Jan 2005 14:48:56 -0700 Re : OT best organization for donation no org be perfect .
we news system thrive on find a chinc in the armor of a organisation , a not perfect organisation .
they need rating and will do anything for it .
IMHO , go with the Red Cross , or any other national organisation .
just give carefully .
if you be go to give assistance then look with suspicion at all they do it be better to keep you $ $ $ .
all you have do be to buy a difficult time .
-- Don Strevel , Las Vegas , NV .
i...@mysecretvegas.com -lrb- autoresponder -rrb- -- outgoing mail be certify virus Free .
check by AVG anti-virus system -lrb- -rrb- .
version : 6.0.830 / virus database : 565 - Release Date : 1/6/2005
piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
Diesel Damo 6 Dec 2004 13:26:14 -0800 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
`` the fact that he do not intend to drive be irrelevant '' ffs !
if that be not relevant , then what the fluck * be * ?
oh well , let cross now to we mob of mindless drone and hear about how good it be that this menace to society be go to be lock up before he kill all we innocent child .
John_H Tue , 07 Dec 2004 07:45:16 +1000 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
no doubt be the law in Q since it be extend from be drunk in charge of a horse .
it be also be rigorously police for as long as I can remember .
note also that have the drunken fool attempt to sleep it off out of the car he would have be cart off to clink for a different offence .
have he be see consuming alcohol in public he would have be do for that as well .
as every queenslander know ... if we do not have the toughest law outside Islam the place would be roll with drunk !
-- John H _ Scott _ Tue , 7 Dec 2004 08:56:05 +1100 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
this be get beyond a joke , several time I have sleep in my car after a night out , to drive home or be pick up the next day depend on alcahol consumption .
FFS just because he sit be the driver seat do not mean he take control of the car .
what about if he put the key in the ignition to turn to accessory to listen to the radio ?
it the car be run fair enough , I wonder why the law be doubt so often scott Michael C Tue , 7 Dec 2004 09:48:52 +1100 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
I think this law be fairly well know , as long as you do not have the key on you be ok .
surely everyone have hear the trick of roll the front wheel over the key .
chance be sleep it off in the car will not be terribly effective because you will most likely be over 0.05 the next morning anyway .
Michael John_H Tue , 07 Dec 2004 09:19:35 +1000 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
in Q he be in charge of the car from the moment he attempt to put the key in the door lock .
if he be asleep in the back seat with the key in he possession then he be the person in charge of the car .
the offence be be drunk in charge of a vehicle -- as distinct from be drunk while operate a vehicle -lrb- which be a separate offence -rrb- .
the way to avoid be charge be to give the key to someone else to unlock the door and have they hang on to the key until you be below .05 .
the standard ruse be to throw the key under the car after you have unlock the door -lrb- which you can later claim be unlock by a person unknown -rrb- .
in this case the offender escape conviction first time around because it be accept that he attempt to get rid of the key , which supposedly land in he lap .
Judge McGill get it right as the law stand .
-- John H Diesel Damo 6 Dec 2004 16:07:39 -0800 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
just try to understand here ... give this quote : '' .
do that mean if I be at home alone get piss with the car key on the coffee table and the car park outside , that I be `` in a position to drive the vehicle if I choose to do so without first take charge of it from some other person '' and can therefore be charge ?
sure , no reasonable cop would do that , but just strictly talk from the law side of thing .
or do the fact that I be on private property change that ?
or what if I be in a bar with the car outside , key in my pocket , but I have decide I will take the train home later ?
it would be a pretty sad state of the law if they could come in , ask for the owner of car rego `` xxx-999 '' and breathalise I because I have the key in my pocket .
John_H Tue , 07 Dec 2004 10:55:38 +1000 Re : piss ?
do not want to drive ?
tough luck .
you be .
McGill say the law say so .
if he have a pistol in he pocket , or a case of gelignite at he foot , I would guess that half the people on this ng would be bay for he hide ... .
where be the fundamental difference ?
same as if the pistol be in the safe and the gelly be lock in the shed .
so long as you do not attempt to access either any charge be not likely to stick .
I be remind of when I live in another state and the local cop charge the town drunk in he driveway after follow he home from the pub .
the drunk be acquit on the technicality that he be not on a public road when the cop arrest he .
would not have happen under Qld law -- and should not have happen anywhere else .
so whose law be stupid ?
Agreed , and not likely to happen in Q. you be deem to be in charge of the vehicle from the moment you attempt to put the key in the door lock .
sound fair enough to I -- especially since most queenslander be well aware of the law .
.
-- John H
please welcome a new staff member Austin Grad Community Sat , 12 Feb 2005 11:54:05 -0600 please welcome a new staff member the following be from Mike Black : Friends : please take some time next week to welcome a new staff member for Landmark Education in Houston !
she name be Janine Beck , she be from Tucson , AZ , and she most recently have be the team leader for Landmark Education program in Tucson -lrb- the title be Source person -rrb- .
she will be the Registration Manager for the Houston Center , accountable for cause registration into the Landmark Forum .
I know this be a huge commitment for she , and I be excite about the difference she will make in my life , my family , and in the life of the people in this part of the world .
a staff member be a graduate .
one of we .
they be one of we that choose to have they life be about empower other to live life powerfully and live a life they love .
when you say `` my life be for that '' then everything in you life become about that .
if you be marry , you marriage be about make a difference in the world .
if you have hobby , the hobby be about make a difference in the world .
this be not a easy thing to take on .
the mountain be very steep and hard to climb .
it be also incredibly rewarding and fulfil and give purpose and mean to you life .
the poet Rilke once say `` the spirit want only that there be flight , as to who actually accomplish it , in that she only have a pass interest '' .
be a staff member be about be the one who accomplish it .
please take a few moment to drop she a note -lrb- I do not have a email address for she .
it will have to be snail mail -rrb- , give she a call at the center , or send she a fax and welcome she to we Center .
know the graduate here appreciate she will make a huge difference for she .
the phone number for the Houston Center be 713-865-9600 , toll free 800-745-1997 .
the fax number be 713-626-3677 .
thank you for you stand and for you partnership .
Mike Black m...@bushblack.com 512-431-3537
biography of Jo-Ann Bellucci JBELLU...@COMCAST.NET Mon , 10 Jan 2005 02:57:20 -0800 biography of Jo-Ann Bellucci my biography change completely 5 year ago when I contract a very severe case of fibromyalga .
usually I say nothing about it although it have severly limited my life , no truthly change it completely !
this time I decide to just say it up front and go back and talk about the good old day , when life be a kick !
I now live in Watertown , MA , 12 mile from Boston 's Logan airport , in a lovely two family house I buy as a investment with my boss , my 9 year old Yorkshire Terrier , Teddy !
I just turn 50 year old this Christmas .
when I have a j.o.b. I run a software company for a few year and then start my own company , Pinnacle Business Enterprises and be under a 5 year exclusive contract with pricewaterhouosecooper do a lot of interesting thing like business process Engineering , process but mostly people and the effect new process would have on they .
show they how to invite change into they life because it free they from the mundanne task and allow they to use they great creativity instead of they back .
I will get on to the more fun stuff -lrb- read embarrassing , teasable stuff -rrb- in a minute but just one business story .
those of you in Louisianna be very familiar with what use to be the Akzo Salt Mines .
on a client visit one day , unexpectedly , they dress I up in safety equipment and run I down the mine shaft .
I mention this because I never really get over , after that , how much we take advantage of evryday thing ... like the salt on we table or the rock salt that keep the northern city move in the winter !
after I learn how to breath with my emergency apparatice I be drive around to see the manufacturing site .
I be sure we be all familiar with those yellow Tonka truck little boy play with and move dirt from one place to another ... well just imagine a entire underground city with a variety of those type of truck -lrb- erath mover , backho etc -rrb- except the tire alone be 8 foot tall !
its then that I realize that life be ever so much more then you can see on the surface in all aspect !
Ok Chris ... here come the stuff you can pay I back with .
I be a excellent dancer , start before I could walk .
I have study ballet , tap , toe , jazz and modern and study opera singing for a while .
due to the medication necessitate by my illness , I have lose 150 lb twice , and in between illness , I model for several of both trendy and elegant boutique and department store as well as do runway work .
one day i will show you my portfolio .
I grow up in what at that time be rural NJ and my father be a avid hunter and sportsman .
my father , way ahead of he time in he thinking , be a equal oportunty thinker ... that be why I can and love to shoot skeet , be a champion archer as a child , learn to camp and hike and drive a speedboat , kayack of course canoe and when I recover Chris , I will join you white wather rafing because I have only do level three but what a unbelievable rush !!
I love to craft , I knit , crochet , make furniture , paint and garden .
I consider myself and `` all AMERICAN GIRL '' when that be not a politically incorrect phrase to use .
I be single , and I teach religious education to teenager as a challenge and as service to God ... but mostly because they be some of the most interesting , difficult people you can teach ... but I love they and once you teach they , they be gold .
both my house , in NJ and Boston be always open to friend and those who would be friend .
and now I will stop because I can see Chris get ready to give I the hook .
my contact info : Jo-Ann Bellucci jbellu...@comcast.net 888-616-3404 - follow I no matter where I be .
organization committee Lauren Rouse Fri , 11 Feb 2005 17:13:41 -0800 -lrb- pst -rrb- organization committee Howdy , Lauren Rouse here .
I be in charge of get everyone excite about contact organization so Marcella can meet with they .
next week we want to have as many date as possible set up for she as we can , so we be ask y' all to please talk to you organization to see if they would be interested in have Marcella come and speak .
in the near future we will be expand this to include all the other organization that we can contact , but we be just keep thing safe for now .
if you be interested in help out with contact organization then please let I know , cause I need all the help I can get .
there be 6 sub committee under the organization committee : greek -lrb- 2 -rrb- Department of multicultural service -lrb- tasha should have this take care of -rrb- msc -lrb- 2 , but I think Crystal be take care of some of this but she still will need some help -rrb- student activity -lrb- 3 -rrb- academic and college -lrb- 2 -rrb- International -lrb- 1 -rrb- I be go to need that number of people to help with contact people in these area , so please let I know asap .
so , as I say earlier please just stick to contact you organization this weekend and friend you may have in other organization .
I have attach the welcome packet info if they be interested and I have the cheat sheet to use as a guideline for when you talk to they -lrb- just in case you do not have they yet -rrb- .
remember to stress that Marcella can either meet with the exec or the whole group -lrb- whatever work best -rrb- , that she will be talk briefly , and that she will be there because she want to learn about that group 's concern and issue at A&M .
do not say anything like `` vote for Marcella '' or `` support Marcella '' cause we do not want anyone to get in trouble .
if they be interested in set up a meeting then have they contact I at 979-777-6445 or at laurouse...@yahoo.com and I will send the info to Tori , or have they contact Tori Foster to set up a time .
also , let I know who you have already contact and set up a meeting with so that I can make sure we do not call they twice .
ok guy , sorry for the long e-mail and the rambling , but I want to make sure that I have everything cover .
and if you have any question feel free to contact I at the number , address above .
thanks y' all !
have a great weekend !
Lauren ------------------------------ -- do you yahoo! ?
Yahoo! search present - Jib Jab 's ` second term ' welcome packet.doc ' Organizations cheat sheet.doc '
sock Painting Party tfo...@yahoo.com Mon , 28 Feb 2005 19:19:14 -0800 sock Painting Party Howdy PR , we be go to be have a sock painting party at my house instead of the normal meeting at St. Mary 's .
it be go to be Wednesday from 5 till 10 .
come and go as you need to .
we need lot and lot of help because there be ton of sock to do .
we have already make one pair and they look awesome !
everyone from the campaign in invite !
if you can please bring ... junky clothes -lrb- wear shorts -rrb- , scissors , blowdryer , duck tape and plastic bag .
the direction to my house be ... - Start on Texas Ave. and head away from Bryan - go down Texas Ave. until you come to South West Parkway - take right on SW Parkway - go down SW Parkway until you come to Welsh -lrb- stoplight -rrb- - take right on Welsh - The apartment complex be call Renaissance Park and be on the immediate left - go into second entrance of the complex on left -lrb- mailbox should be on right side -rrb- - Park anywhere - I be in building 24 apartment # 241 - we will possibly be out back around pool if no one answer door
need active Angel Investor for guarantee capital deal filmhedge 8 Feb 2005 09:06:49 -0800 need active Angel Investor for guaranteed capital deal I be the head of a company that raise a angel round of financing from a San Francisco angel investor who I never physically meet initially .
without sound pretentious , he read my business plan and on the strength of it , wire I money a few week later I be currently review investor interest for a guarantee motion picture capital fund -lrb- yes investment be 100 % protect and secure in the event film do NOT PERFOM USING INNOVATIVE FIANCING hedge -rrb- for the follow I be look for a active investor/partner for several film include a russian `` Goodfellas '' meet `` once upon a time in America '' and several high end studi-esque horror film where the principal of a investment be secure 100 % exclusive of performance .
there be ripe window of opportunity right now for independently finance film examplify with the recent success of such film as Napolean Dynamite -lrb- make for 250,000 , sell for 5 mil , make 50 million at b.o. -rrb- , Garden State , Open Water , Maria full of Grace , Motorcyle Diaries , SAW -lrb- make for 750,000-made 60 mil . -rrb-
and other .
the ceo and exec of company such as Fred Smith of FEDEX , Norman Waitt of Gateway , Jeff Skoll of Ebay , Roger Marino of EMC , Marc Turtletaub of the money store , Marc Cuban/Todd Wagner , and other have all park they money in film venture and deal similar to ours , I need a similar self make entrepreneur who recently sell he company ; be currently at the helm of one ; or , a recently exit executive with a large severance pay who be sit in the middle of nowhere , USA , be bore , and have always secretly want to get into the film business for tax , vanity , or alternative investment reason .
while it seem there be other situation that be similar to mine , i feel that because I do offer a 100 % capital guarantee of principal on investment , my business model and risk minimization offer more of a clear cut exit strategy than just a pie in the sky deal .
I be look for someone who can help I get the financing and be no frill , reliable , and visionary when it will come down to it .
someone who have a extensive network in alternative investment , hedge fund , private equity , and a old-school network .
I be not look for a boiler room cold caller , but someone that can present my deal to 5-10 guy and make it happen .
email to filmhe...@aol.com
the pain of Childbirth Anna mc thu , 20 Jan 2005 10:04:19 +0100 the pain of Childbirth I have 2 girl already , nearly 8 and 4.5 yr and I have always say I will never forget the pain of childbirth .
Abby be a true water birth -lrb- 3kg - normal -rrb- and with Fiona I be drag out of the pool after the head crown -lrb- gyno have write on my note she be 4kg -lrb- large -rrb- and that she be not to be bear in the water -lrb- long painful story ! -rrb-
I can still remember though the pain I feel .
I be on the large side but I be so worried about how I be go to cope with a natural childbirth without a pool -lrb- not available round here -rrb- .
I have see video and hear of lady who have `` manage '' they pain control .
how in Heavens name can you do that ?
I have be there ; I know what the pain feel like !!
can anyone give I advice or let I know of any technique which might be able to help ?
thanks in advance .
Anna mc Dagny Thu , 20 Jan 2005 06:08:30 -0500 Re : the pain of Childbirth if you do not have a institutional water birth available , have you consider just stay home ?
unassisted or midwife attend ?
I understand hypnobirthing can be very helpful .
I be not pursue it because I be able to go inside the pain to the good place without training , last time .
I have not be think much about the hard part of labor prior to get so close .
now I remember how intense it be .
I think I be still look forward to it more than fear it , but hey .
it be a really intense , vulnerable thing .
-- Dagny Welches Thu , 20 Jan 2005 15:52:49 GMT Re : the pain of Childbirth if you go for a home birth you can rent a birthing pool .
I would not necessaritly say that you will have a repeat labour !
my first labour I be 30 hour and have a epidural after 22 hour .
# 2 I go in say `` give I the epidural asap-and never get to the state where I feel that I need it .
only have ten and gas-and-air .
so do not give up on the idea of a natural birth because last time be painful .
I think different people/different labour be different , so just because one person say `` I do *** and it do not hurt a bit '' do not mean that it will work for someone else , so go in with a set of suggestion , and be prepare to try they and see which be the best be probably the most helpful .
-lrb- oh and `` it do not hurt a bit '' be usually help by mummy amnesia !!
;-p -rrb- Debbie
waiver of extradition mean what JohnQ.Public Thu , 02 Dec 2004 16:48:31 -0500 waiver of extradition mean what my girlfriend be on the run from probation in Fla when she get herself in trouble here in Az. which apparantly , true to she habit , she try to avoid by not show up for court .
Time go by , we meet etc etc she get herself under the scrutiny of the police and into jail again .
fla trouble 1999 she sign a waiver of extradition as part of she plea deal Az in trouble in 2001 , fla be mention and she sign another waiver of extradition , post bond and skip -lrb- not far enough apparantly -rrb- az trouble again in 2004 , she serve 6 month , then the day before she be to be release to do 5 yr probation she in az , fla show up and take she to fla facee she original 1999 charge which be still open -lrb- she fail miserably at probation -rrb- I think they want to give she 3 year .
my question isa this , what the heck be a waiver of extradition good 4 ?
how will she probation be affect here ?
I ask around locally and no one will reply , not she public defender , the public defender office , so I guess this be my last resource cuase I can not afford to consult with a attorney .
thanks in advance , MLM the guy who shoulda known better ... .
Eliyahu Rooff Mon , 06 Dec 2004 10:02:57 -0500 Re : waiver of extradition mean what the waiver of extradition that she sign simply mean that if she skip out and go to another state , she can not contest the right of the original court to have she haul back to its jurisdiction , and that the court will not have to initiate the time-consuming process of extradite she .
instead , if the cop pick she up , she can be ship back without delay .
Might be time to find a new girlfriend ... this one seem to have a habit of duck out when thing get rough .
Eliyahu Michael Jacobs Mon , 06 Dec 2004 10:08:56 -0500 Re : waiver of extradition mean what she be go to have a lot of separate offens to account for by this time .
2 `` fta `` s -lrb- failure to appear -rrb- , one in fl and one in AZ , plus whatever the original charge be in both case .
that mean she have give up the right to force the fl authority to go thru legal due process in demand that the AZ authority turn she over to they for further prosecution .
all the fl prosecutor have to do be ask , and the AZ jailer will pack she up in a van or a plane and ship she back to fl for trial on the FTA charge and probably to commence she serve time under the suspend sentence that go along with she original probation .
she be in DEEP SH __ t if you have not already figure that out .
nowhere in USA would be far enough if she waive extradition .
of course they do .
that be what she waiver of extradition mean they could do .
they let she serve she time in AZ , then they come and get she to serve she time in fl .
this be what happen when people blow off the chance they be give to straighten out by be give probation .
thumb you nose at the court often enough , and they will bring all sort of crap down on you head , re-institute the original suspend sentence and possibly add on for the FTA .
what be it good for ?
it be good for the state , not for the convict .
it let they skip some of the legal procedure she would otherwise be entitle to , in order to ship she from one state to another .
but they be entitle to demand that waiver as a condition of probation ; if she have not agree to voluntarily waive that right , they probably would have just throw she in jail for the 3 year sentence the first time around and she would not have be give the chance to go straight during probation and avoid jail altogether .
she do not have a lot of leeway here .
she have do this numerous time and they be not likely to give she another wide open chance like they do the first 3 time .
she will probably have to serve out she sentence in fl , and if she have not already serve all she time in AZ , they will then ship she back there to do that time .
Waitaminit , you say she do have a public defender ?
ok , he/she be do all they can , but that be not much , under the circumstance .
you be complain that you can not get a atty ?
you do not need one .
and she atty will not talk to you because you be not entitle to participate in they confidential communication with they client .
but will not you gf tell you these thing ?
if not , maybe it be because she do not want you to know either .
which you would then take into account in decide if you still want she to be you significant other .
anyway , good luck , -- this post be for discussion purpose , not professional advice .
anything you post on this newsgroup be public information .
I be not you lawyer , and you be not my client in any specific legal matter .
for confidential professional advice , consult you own lawyer in a private communication .
Mike Jacobs LAW OFFICE of W. MICHAEL JACOBS 10440 little patuxent pkwy # 300 Columbia , MD 21044 -lrb- tel -rrb- 410-740-5685 -lrb- fax -rrb- 410-740-4300
question regard simple assault & battery Annie Juhlyn Simon Sat , 29 Jan 2005 22:25:56 -0500 question regard simple assault & battery my roommate be hospitalize in mid-November for lung surgery and spend several day on load of pain medication .
on the fourth day of he stay , he be move out of the icu to the step-down unit , with a diagnosis of `` ICU Psychosis secondary to narcotic administration '' and post thoracostomy . ''
he be confuse , because of the medication but be not aggressive or threatening in any manner .
I see he each day and as soon as we speak , he become orient and be perfectly fine .
this be witness by both the nursing staff and he doctor .
during the early evening hour of he sixth hospital day , he get up , dress , pull he chest tube out and manage to get out of the hospital and across four lane of busy evening traffic , to we apartment .
by the time he get to we home , he be very short of breath and there be a nurse and orderly who tell I `` he be crazy and just walk out . ''
I sit he down on the couch and talk to he , and ask he what have happen .
he say he would ask for something for pain and they tell hime he could not have anything .
then the orderly be apparently rude to he , and that be when he get up and decide to come home .
a short time later , two police officer show up and tell I they have to take he back to the hospital .
he go back with the officer , give they no problem at all .
I receive a call from the shift supervisor who tell I they would replace he chest tube , give he some pain medication and he be do much better .
I tell she to pass on the other shift that if he become confused or upset to call I , and I would talk to he , and get he settle down .
at 2:15 the next morning , I receive a call from the night shift supervisor who tell I my friend have be `` verbally abusive and aggressive '' and would I come over and talk to he .
so , I go over there , get to he room right at 2:30 .
there be two cop there and I ask what have happen .
my roommate be in bed , sound asleep , and have all of he clothes on .
a nurse say , `` he beat two of we up .
the cop be here because we be press charge . ''
I have live with this man 9 year and never in that time have I ever see he be aggressive , violent or abusive in anyway .
I ask to speak to the two nurse whom he would alledgedly hit and be tell I could not do that .
a hour or so pass and the get my roommate out of bed , take he chest tube out and discharge he .
he be send to another hospital with a psych unit until he psychosis resolve .
I be give copy of a citation for simple assault and battery , then go to the police station several day later to find out what other paperwork be available on this incident .
I be give a copy of a different citation , but with the identical information from the one I would get the night of the incident .
the police report have the victim say she be `` choke to where she almost lose consciousness , strike in the face with a belt buckle and it have leave large mark , and that he would grab she breast and leave mark .
accord to the police report , this woman never report to the er for verification of the injury and no one else can verify exactly what happen to provoke this incident .
my roommate have no recollection of the time from the day before the incident happen until he wake up at the other hospital .
he be cite for simple assault and battery .
if there be no evidence , and that include the belt buckle , how can the county prosecute this case .
?
all of he belongings be return to I upon he discharge , with the exception of the belt buckle .
the police do not have it and the hospital do not know what happen to it .
also , I be look at both citation , I do not get to the hospital until 2:30 am , and the officer have the time of incident as be at 2:34 am .
do anyone besides I see a problem with any of this ?
what kind of recourse do my roommate have in all of this ?
thanks from Oklahoma John A. Weeks III Tue , 01 Feb 2005 18:16:16 -0500 Re : question regard simple assault & battery you need a attorney right away .
you be not go to be able to poke hole in this case with internet advice .
in addition , I be suggest raise the stake .
the hospital obviously know that you friend be have head problem , and they improperly treat he by not send he to a psych ward , which allow the situation to get worse until the point where he assault someone .
sue they for malpractice , and make the number big enough to get some serious attention .
- john - -- ============================== ============================== ========== John A. Weeks III 952-432-2708 j...@johnweeks.com Newave Communications ============================== ============================== ========== Mark A Tue , 01 Feb 2005 18:16:40 -0500 Re : question regard simple assault & battery get a criminal defense lawyer -lrb- I do not say that very often on this newsgroup -rrb- .
if you roommate can not afford one , contact you roommate 's parent about pay for one , or ask about get a court appoint lawyer .
tell the lawyer that you will help with the case -lrb- do administrative stuff , etc -rrb- in any way that would help him/her defend you roommate .
North Korea have nuclear weapon .
the Independent of Clackamas County wed , 09 Feb 2005 23:32:07 -0800 North Korea have nuclear weapon .
the foreign minister of North Korea have state that North Korea have nuclear weapon and have officially with draw from the 6 nation talk on nuclear proliferation in east Asia .
the Foreign minister also indicate that North Korea will continue to develop long range missile capable of obliterate any target within the border of the United States .
accord to East Asia Intelligence source , North Korea have already prepositioned nuclear tip missile on freighter and fishing trawler that be sail under foreign flag of convenience , that be station off the west coast and east coast of the United States .
missile launch from these vessel be say to be able to hit 90 % percent of the major city with in 2 and one half minute from time of launch .
I do not know about the rest of you but I think that in the next few week I will be move supplies and equipment to my site in eastern Oregon .
of course you can do what you want but I do not trust the pot belly idiot Kim junk Ill any farther than I could throw he .
-- the Independent of Clackamas County `` what experience and history teach be this -- that people and government never have learn anything from history , or act on principle deduce from it '' George Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel 1770-1831 the Independent of Clackamas County Thu , 10 Feb 2005 06:49:47 -0800 Re : North Korea have nuclear weapon .
well here be the problem that I face and many should be worry about .
if North Korea have have nuclear weapon for a few year then they develop they during the Clinton Administration .
the Clinton Administration also allow Loral to sell Missile technology to China , who have be help Pakistan to build they missile .
that technology have undoubtably make it back to North Korea -lrb- Pakistan , Iran and North Korea be all work on the same set of missile blue print -rrb- .
so now we have North Korea with nuclear weapon and workable missile .
also since we miss the boat on North Korea and nuclear weapon how can we be sure that Iran do not have nuclear weapon ?
the simple and wisest action be to assume that they do have a small number and be work feverishly to build a bigger arsenal .
now the nut of the question should be , what if Iran give , sell , provide nuclear weapon to islamic extremist to smuggle into the United States and at 10 be on a Wednesday pop 2 or 3 in New York City , destroy Wall street , the large bank , the large insurance company , the large sock brokerage house and many other world wide financial institution .
at the same time 2 weapon go off in Washington DC and take out the President , the Vice President , 80 senator , and 350 congressman as well as the department of the treasury , Interior , Health and Welfare , Justice , Commerce and the Federal Court system .
and then just for yuck let assume that one go off at the Pentagon .
now what do we do ?
remember all you pension fund be now go .
all you investment be go .
all the bank record be go .
no more government payment for federal employee .
no more government payment for aid to school , environment , police , court , well fare , etc. .
the dollar be now worthless on the international market .
with a worthless dollar the amount of fuel available be not cut by 80 % .
no more cheap import of clothes , boot , appliance , computer stuff , communication equipment , generator , electric motor car , Trucks etc. .
massive unemployment as we be now in a service economy with nothing to service .
do the word TEOTWAWKI have any meaning .
oh I expect to thing to hang together for a few week as local , county , and state government try to hold thing together , but they will not .
with out fuel to move food stuff from the farm to food manufacture to local warehouse food stuff will dry up with in a few week or so .
with out fuel to move import stuff -lrb- most of what we buy these day -rrb- from the port of entry to local warehouse and local retailer shelf of item like building material , tool , and every thing else we buy the shelf will be empty in a month or so .
of course the above do not take into account that people drive by fear do not riot and loot every thing in site in the first week .
if the attack should happen in the winter , no natural gas from Canada to heat home , or fire steam drive electrical generator .
of course we could convert back to coal but it will take a couple of week to convert they to coal but then how do you get the coal from the mine to the power plant ???
with no Social Security or pension payment , aid to Dependent Children and other government payment , food stamp , -lrb- which be all check and voucher -rrb- , and there be no bank to cash they , -lrb- they get all wipe out in the New York financial destruction remember -rrb- no body will accept they .
no the situation do not look good from where I sit .
oh we can work on the assumption that the Mullahs of Iran will be rational , -lrb- but how rational be people who train and fund suicide bomber -rrb- and a rational Kim junk Ill -lrb- who let large number of he people starve to death every year so he can have nuclear weapon -rrb- kidnap japanese Citizens to teach English , kidnap movie star so he can have private performance etc. .
look at Kim Jung Ill behavior over the last decade or so any you will find that Hitler be a saint compare to Kim junk Ill. .
no it be go to be a scary time for the next decade or so and the neo-chamberlin -lrb- most of the leftist that most on this board -rrb- -lrb- you know prime minister chamberlin hold up he piece of paper contain a agreement from Herr Hitler with peace in we time -rrb- , be not go to do one thing to keep this country safe .
by the way I consider , Kerry , Dean , Kennedy , Carl Levin , Lathey , Murry , Finestien , Boxer , -lrb- oh hell the whole democratic party -rrb- and member of the press as neo-chamberlin .
well on to a happier note .
I have a job interview today for a permanent position that will pay 20 % more than my contracting do and will have benefit .
contract here in Oregon be go at $ 14.00 a hour at Intell , up to $ 20 a hour at other place .
why should hi tech firm pay more in the United States than they do in China or India ?
just hear yesterday that Hewlett Packard be shut down its plant in Eugene , -lrb- thank you very much MS. Fiorina -rrb- and SUN Micro system be all but go from Oregon .
fortunately my interview be with a engineer to specification custom manufacturing facility .
--
s Corp Profit distribution and bankrupcy .
superprimen...@gmail.com 17 Feb 2005 21:50:52 -0800 s Corp Profit distribution and bankrupcy .
my uncle declare bankruptcy in 2003 and he case close in June 2004 .
if I give he share in my corporation in Feb 2004 of my s Corporation make he 30 % shareholder , and I finally distribute profit this year , will the creditor attempt to that take money from he in 2005 ?
Thomas Healy Fri , 18 Feb 2005 06:09:54 GMT Re : S Corp Profit distribution and bankrupcy .
on 2/17/05 10:50 PM , in article 1108705852.360452.268...@f14g2 000cwb .
googlegroups.com , probably not .
but if he be require to list the share in bankruptcy filings , and do not , the answer may be different .
I think , though , that any transaction after the bankruptcy filing date be part of he new life .
-- Tom Healy , CPA Boulder , CO web : shyster1040 fri , 18 Feb 2005 08:32:13 -0500 Re : S Corp Profit distribution and bankrupcy .
be the trustee inform of the transfer of the share ?
since you give you uncle the share prior to he discharge , the share should have become asset available to the bankruptcy estate for the satisfaction of debt .
if the share transfer be report to the trustee and the trustee do nothing about they , then you may be ok ; however , if you fail to inform the trustee , then you uncle may be liable for hide asset , which would , at the minimum , invalidate he discharge .
even if the transfer do not invalidate the whole discharge , the distribution might be subject to forfeiture to pay creditor ' claim if you fail to inform the trustee of the share transfer .
you need to speak to a bankruptcy attorney pronto ; this be a bankruptcy matter , not a tax matter .
superprimen...@gmail.com 18 Feb 2005 10:49:15 -0800 Re : S Corp Profit distribution and bankrupcy .
the bankrupcy filing take place in 2003 , but it didnt clear until early 2004 and that be when i give he the share .
he have no share in 2003 .
shyster1040 fri , 18 Feb 2005 14:21:23 -0500 Re : S Corp Profit distribution and bankrupcy .
yes , but accord to the fact you first give , he have not yet receive the bankruptcy discharge when you give he the share .
I believe you have say that you give he the share in February 2004 but that the discharge do not come until June of 2004 .
that mean that he receive the share while he be still in bankruptcy , which mean that the share be potentially asset that the trustee could use to pay off creditor .
a bankruptcy case do not close until you get the discharge order , and until then everything that the debtor receive be fair game for the trustee .
if the trustee be inform of the share and do nothing about it , you be more likely than not ok , but if the trustee be not inform of the fact directly , then you may be in trouble .
if , however , you uncle receive the share after he obtain a order of discharge from the bankruptcy court , then as a general matter the creditor can not go after the share , unless they can prove that there be collusion between you and you uncle to hide he asset from they -lrb- e.g. , by put he asset in the corporation 's name and then wait until after the bankruptcy to transfer the share to he -rrb- .
BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
Jeanne Ketterer Sat , 19 Feb 2005 16:26:44 GMT BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
watch Larry King last night about the BTK killer and something just seem off about the whole thing .
I do not understand -- be not print take , etc ?
they have witness and I feel they have a whole lot more stuff .
what about print , DNM take off of current envelope , etc. , he send ?
I ~ know ~ and realize how difficult it be to get these serial killer , but still .
a author plug he book on lk claim and with a good bit of blow that the investigation was/is as big as Kennedy 's .
really ?
I do not know , still feel something 's off .
Jeanne joyleenseymour 19 Feb 2005 17:21:25 -0800 Re : BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
okay , I give up .
what be the BTK killer ?
joy Lauradog Sat , 19 Feb 2005 19:58:32 -0600 Re : BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
a serial killer in Wichita , Kansas who kill at least 8 people in the '70 and '80 .
btk stand for bind , torture , and kill .
he send several letter to the police and the media during that time .
and now he be communicate with they again , send token from he victim .
or someone be play a big hoax .
I have wonder too , with all the forensic advance in the past 25 year why he have not be identify .
here be a link .
sue D. raylopez99 27 Feb 2005 12:54:03 -0800 Re : BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
you do well to wonder why the BTK killer be not capture until yesterday .
the informal speculation be that the Wichita police department be not up to the task .
consider this : - one of the BTK killer 's victim live on the same street as the killer - the btk killer once call up a police dispatcher and tell she of the crime he just commit , and still they could not catch he - the BTK killer be a known nitpicker and nuissance .
this be actually a indicator in profile of serial killer and mastermind terrorist .
- the BTK killer be only find out when he daughter recognize certain trait and turn in she dna , which be a close match to the dna on file for she father .
like in the case of the Unibomber , if it be not for the foresight and charity of a relative , the BTK killer would still be loose .
I be once read how a criminal be be track in Washington , DC , and how he escape a police dragnet several time , once by take a taxi .
though there be very brave police , to a large extent the police have no incentive to capture a criminal , just to stay out of harm 's way and to collect fact after the fact .
the rich hire private security for a reason -- public security be often inadequate .
rl Joan in GB-W Sun , 27 Feb 2005 15:18:24 -0600 Re : BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
what do BTK stand for ?
I read the article in the newspaper this morning and no where do it answer that question .
-lrb- and it be probably so obvious I will slap the side of my head when I find out . -rrb-
Joan Jr@Ease Sun , 27 Feb 2005 17:06:26 -0500 Re : BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
I think it be Bind , Torture and kill .
or something like that .
John p ____________________________ where be I go ?
and what be I do in this Handbasket ?
____________________________ Jeanne Ketterer Sun , 27 Feb 2005 22:02:26 GMT Re : BTK why be it so difficult to get he ?
I believe bind Torture kill = btk .
my point about take so long ... for thirty year people do not feel safe .
the LE have a obligation to keep safe .
I bet the neighbor be go through hell .
Jeanne
-lsb- tan -rsb- Parole Mark Erikson 8 Feb 2005 10:50:23 -0800 -lsb- tan -rsb- Parole this be just a point of interest , I be not go to jail , and most certainly not in America - and my interest lie in the american jail system .
I have browse around the internet and can not find the information I be after .
what be the deal with parole ?
if you get out on parole , what happen then , and how long do it last ?
-lrb- and , specifically , who take you home once you get out of jail , or do you just get turf out and expect to check in with you parole officer the next day ? -rrb-
.
and , again fairly specifically -lrb- and I realise this be state specific , but I be kinda look for a general answer here -rrb- : if a eighteen year old get catch sell marijuana to 12-14 year old , and get put away for , say , three year , be this the sort of deal where he be likely to get parole , or just do the time and leave again ?
- Mark Erikson Vinny R. Tue , 08 Feb 2005 14:22:50 -0500 Re : -lsb- tan -rsb- Parole get out on parole be usually a reward for good behavior while serve time .
so you be basically free , with the expectation that you will not leave the state -lrb- assume you have be jail by the state gov ` t -rrb- and you have to check in with you parole officer on a regular basis -lrb- I think they give you a schedule -rrb- .
I * believe * you be also expect to get a job , housing , etc. and report this also .
in some case you may be refer to a specific ` halfway ' house for reintroduction into society , and provide with a simple job .
as for how long it last , I would say that it last for the rest of you sentence , but I be not sure about that .
also , you can call someone to come pick you up when you leave , or call a taxi I guess .
not just state-specific , judge -lrb- jury -rrb- - specific and case-specific .
for some reason , I can not recall if sell drug to minor qualify as a jury trial or what .
but these decision be entirely up to the judge/jury , and the decision be usually make in regard to the character of the defendant .
- Vinny R. Kate Nepveu wed , 09 Feb 2005 01:11:36 GMT Re : -lsb- tan -rsb- Parole this be all base on my experience in New York .
you have to provide a plan residence when you be consider for parole , usually a relative or program of some kind .
it last as long as the rest of you sentence last .
you can go back to prison for violate the condition of you parole , for a period of time up until you sentence run out .
Parole be not a right and its grant be discretionary .
-- Kate Nepveu e-mail : knep...@steelypips.org Home : book log : Kate Nepveu Thu , 10 Feb 2005 02:53:42 GMT Re : -lsb- tan -rsb- parole -lsb- ... -rsb- indeed , New York 's statute say , `` discretionary release on parole shall not be grant merely as a reward for good conduct or efficient performance of duty while confine but after consider if there be a reasonable probability that , if such inmate be release , he will live and remain at liberty without violate the law , and that he release be not incompatible with the welfare of society and will not so deprecate the seriousness of he crime as to undermine respect for law . ''
N.Y. Executive Law 259-i -lrb- 2 -rrb- -lrb- c -rrb- -lrb- a -rrb- .
-lrb- instead , there be way of get you parole eligibility date move up for good behavior , or of create strong presumption in favor of parole release . -rrb-
-- / rich 15 Feb 2005 22:29:04 -0800 Re : -lsb- tan -rsb- Parole one of the factor for the standard Kate mention be whether the inmate have rehabilitate himself .
Rehabilitation be one of the major goal of prison .
-- Rich
OT : Republican election standard gould0...@aol.com 30 Jan 2005 10:06:08 -0800 OT : Republican election standard here on the left edge of the country , we have a unique perspective on election standard .
in Iraq , a election take place in which one of the three major force vie for control of the country opt out .
a few people will turn out and elect somebody .
it be hail as the greatest triumph of democracy since the defeat of Imperial Japan .
in Washington State , we governor 's race may be undecided for month to come .
follow the election and recount process exactly as outline in we state constitution , the democratic candidate win by a margin of less than 200 vote .
with roughly three million vote cast in the race , the margin of victory be a few ten thousand of one percent or some such microscopic amount .
for all intent and purpose it be a tie - but somebody have to end up with a few more vote and this time around it be the demo .
the same group of people who have say `` even if some region be too unsafe for people to go to the poll and even if large portion of the population will not recognize the legitimacy of the outcome , some election be better than no election , and it be a great day for democracy ! ''
... be sue to overthrow the result of the governor 's election be Washington State because there be some `` error '' in the process .
-lrb- they holler `` fraud '' until they get to court , but unable to find any evidence with which to substantiate that charge they have back down to `` error '' . -rrb-
so the standard be : any old process halfway resemble a election be just diddly dandy in Iraq , but we will not accept the result of a free and fair election in Washington State because there may have be a human error rate of 0.0000001 percent .
in Washington State , the election have to be not only free and fair , but also `` perfect '' .
-lrb- of course , the Republicans would have think the WA State election * be * perfect , have they candidate hold the same 100 and some vote margin when all the smoke finally clear -rrb- .
funny how the standard change , and so easily , depend on agenda .
Bert Robbins Sun , 30 Jan 2005 13:52:34 -0500 Re : Republican election standard we have see we state 's standard .
keep recount the vote until you get the result you want and if you need to go `` find '' some more vote in a warehouse , in a box , hide behind some other box .
this be too funny .
the one that be `` opt '' out be in one of three protect class within Iraq .
the protected class be Kurd 's , Sunni 's and woman .
only vote that end in a tie be where both side have the exact same number of vote .
this do not happen in Washington State .
it take multiple recount before the vote tabulation be determine to be credible by the Democrats .
be not it King County that have `` count '' more vote than register voter .
please explain how this happen .
it seem that the evidence of irregularity in the voting process be extremely apparent .
yes , it be funny be not it ?
Snafu Sun , 30 Jan 2005 15:26:13 -0800 Re : OT : Republican election standard I be a Democrat , a liberal and probably whole bunch of other label that you can pin on I .
I be always glad to see people gain the opportunity to change they government from a dictatorship to a democracy .
everyone , everywhere should have the basic right to elect they government .
the problem with this election be that no matter what happen the result be go to be taint and questionable .
think about this objectively -lrb- forget the US be involve -rrb- , if a foreign country invade another and set up election , would not a reasonable person question the validity of the election result ?
let 's assign some name .
say it be 1942 , and the german occupier in Holland have set up election with dutch candidate .
well , not really candidate , but political party -- you will be tell who the candidate be later .
would you say the result be valid ?
even if you , John H , believe the US hold impartial election in Iraq , do not you think the rest of the world will find the result invalid , or least suspect ?
JohnH Sun , 30 Jan 2005 20:10:39 -0500 Re : OT : Republican election standard on Sun , 30 Jan 2005 15:26:13 -0800 , `` snafu '' if Lou Dobbs , on CNN , at 6:10 Eastern , can say , `` this election be a success by any measure , '' that be good enough for I .
not even Chris -lrb- Kerry 's my man -rrb- Mathews could find any real fault with the outcome .
we soldier weren ' e even close to the poll .
hell , they could not even see the poll in most place , so the intimidation bullshit be just that .
even Brian Williams , when question by Chris , have to admit that he see nothing to show US intimidation .
-lrb- you could tell it be kill Brian to have to admit that ! -rrb-
of course , you probably know better since you be there , right ?
here , go read something from people who be there : if you look closely , you will even find some negative to gloat over .
Bert Robbins Sun , 30 Jan 2005 20:26:26 -0500 Re : OT : Republican election standard you have to start somewhere and this election be to get a legislative body to write a constitution for Iraq .
the next election will be the one with more legitimacy .
sound like how we country start do not it ?
JohnH Mon , 31 Jan 2005 08:38:01 -0500 Re : OT : Republican election standard on Sun , 30 Jan 2005 21:38:22 - sorry about my hard ass attitude !
the US soldier be purposely keep well away from the poll during the time the poll be open .
they be the outer of three concentric security ring , with the iraqi police and Army occupy the closest two ring .
I watch a lot -lrb- but not all , of course -rrb- of the news on most of the different channel , stay up until 5 be -lrb- like a real dummy ! -rrb-
.
I do not see one instance of US soldier at polling place .
I * do * see a lot of iraqi soldier .
except for the US flag on the shoulder and the different weapon , they look pretty much the same .
hell , I notice that some of the US soldier be carry AK 's in one place !
John H on the ` PocoLoco ' out of Deale , MD , on the beautiful Chesapeake Bay !
`` divide each difficulty into as many part as be feasible and necessary to resolve it . ''
Rene Descartes
turn out the August 2003 crisis be not a crisis Sam Sloan Thu , 16 Dec 2004 15:47:26 GMT turn out the August 2003 crisis be not a crisis turn out the August 2003 crisis be not a crisis everyone have hear the story : Beatriz Marinello be elect USCF President on August 11 , 2003 in Los Angeles .
immediately after she take office , she find out that the USCF have no money in the bank , zero .
the uscf do not even have the money to pay the guarantee prize at the just conclude US open in Los Angeles .
therefore , on August 20 , 2003 , bravely Beatriz walk into the USCF office in New Windsor and immediately fire 17 staff member .
John McCrary resign from the board as a result .
of course , it be just a pure coincidence that the 17 people beatriz fire be the people she have grow to dislike during the year that she work for the USCF in 1999-2000 .
it take six week before the USCF pay the guarantee prize the prize winner have win at the US Open .
I have just find out something that insider have know for a long time .
the uscf do not have zero money in the bank .
it have $ 85,000 in another bank account that nobody know about .
this be not due to any malfeasance .
the office accountant for the USCF have set up a separate bank account and have put the entry fee from the US open into that account .
nobody know about that separate bank account , except for the accountant herself .
when this be discover , the accountant explain that she be plan to keep the money in that account until the tournament be close out .
perhaps the accountant be follow a procedure follow by the USCF for scholastic tournament .
at scholastic tournament , no cash prize be pay .
however , in adult tournament , the player expect to receive they prize , and to receive they immediately .
for this act of stupidity which have cause a grave crisis in the USCF , the accountant be immediately fire .
have the existence of this $ 85,000 in a secret bank account be know , it would not have be necessary to fire those 17 people right away .
perhaps in the long run it be a good thing to fire they , but it might not have be a good idea to fire they all abruptly , in the same day .
Sam Sloan StanB Thu , 16 Dec 2004 20:14:34 -0500 Re : turn out the August 2003 crisis be not a crisis Bullcrap .
he be embarass by how Niro mislead he into think there would be a surplus .
he be ask to wait until after the LA meeting be over before resign .
right , we shoulda piss another 85,000 away before we stop the red ink .
Parrthenon 17 Dec 2004 02:29:13 GMT Re : turn out the August 2003 crisis be not a crisis Frank Niro thanks Sam Sloan in this message to the FIDE newsgroup : Thu , 16 Dec 2004 21:06:29 EST Frank Niro comment on the Aug 2003 so-called crisis yes , Sam , you be correct .
and I know about it also .
I also know about the $ 100,000 + of audit adjustment -lrb- and non-adjustment -rrb- for inventory , unbilled advertising , newsstand sale , tournament revenue , pension & health insurance over-accrual , multus year membership revenue , etc. etc. that I be too sick to argue with Linda and the auditor about .
I know that they would get correct as a matter of course during fiscal 2004 result in understatement of 2003 income and overstatement of 2004 .
and , of course , that be what happen .
I just have no idea that the new Board would see it as leverage to seize power and pummel the office staff .
not only be there adequate cash put aside , we have approval for a equity loan on the building to bridge the move .
but I do not want to pay the $ 10,000 point and interest unless and until it be absolutely necessary .
we also have a buyer for the building at a prize much higher than it be eventually sell for and a commitment for 4 % bank financing in Crossville .
Staff reduction be clearly in the work pend system change that would be facilitate by any move , Miami , PBG , Crossville or elsewhere .
to make the staff cut without the system change be absurd and probably the reason for McCrary & Camaratta 's departure .
when I offer to attend the Board meeting in October 2003 to explain and clarify all this , I be tell I be not welcome .
I sit in New Windsor all weekend wait for a phone call so I could answer EB question and shed light on the situation .
it be no coincidence that the employee let go include substantially all those who have offer to transfer to Crossville , include -lrb- remarkably -rrb- the employee of the year !
you can read all this in my book come out next summer .
thanks for see the truth for a change .
best wish to all , Frank Niro in a message date 12/16/2004 10:55:45 AM Eastern Standard Time ,
ethical and legal issue in hire Marinello Petrel Sat , 18 Dec 2004 02:11:28 GMT Ethical and legal issue in hire Marinello it have be suggest that there be , or be at one time , some sort of delegate ' motion which establish a minimum period between the time someone could leave the EB and the time someone could be hire by the USCF .
I do not know if this be so , and I really think it be sort of irrelevant .
it be irrelevant because the REAL question be whether a active board member can , while on the board , arrange to be give money by the USCF .
of course it be in the bylaw that a active board member can not be give money by the uscf while on the board .
it ought to be pretty obvious that it would be entirely contrary to the spirit of this for a active board member to be money after leave the board .
suppose , for example , there be to be a proposal to the effect that each EB member would be give $ 10,000 upon the expiration of his/her term .
clearly this would be a transparent attempt to evade the bylaw and would fail .
if the board can not vote to give themselves present money , they can not vote to give themselves future money either .
furthermore , it do not matter whether this arrangement be embody in a EB vote or not , or whether the discussion of the proposal take place in a formal EB meeting or not .
a board member , while on the board , be suppose to be represent the interest of the USCF , not feather his/her nest , in the present or in the future .
if a board member make such arrangement , it be clearly a ethic violation , clearly a violation of the bylaw , possibly endanger we tax-exempt status , and be possibly a violation of law as well .
the purpose of have a `` time limit '' would be as a mechanism to ensure compliance with the above principle ; that be , you would have a time limit because it would reduce the likelihood that someone would be tempt to violate the above prohibition ; it would give the voter time to elect a new EB that would consider the issue objectively .
of course , it be possible that someone could leave the board - without - ever have discuss be compensate by the board in the future , and that then the remain member could , for good reason , hire that person .
it would create question among the suspicious - and avoid this appearance of wrongdoing would be another good reason for a time limit - but it would not automatically be a ethic or bylaw violation .
but this be neither here nor there , because the fact that Randy Bauer be already talk about Beatriz Marinello as the USCF 's new `` move coordinator '' , whatever that involve , and whether or not it mean that she would be the de facto interim ED , mean that at some level and in some form these discussion HAVE already take place , while Marinello be serve as President .
I mean , it be conceivable that the other six have all get together in Marinello 's absence and draft she , but it also seem pretty clear that she have agree to do it , and , if all the rumor be true and she step down , it will be so that she can take on these new responsibility .
so the ` time limit ' issue do not even come up .
we pretty much know that Marinello , while on the board , have arrange to get future money from the USCF .
so we already have a problem .
if this be not a problem , I wish someone would explain to I why not .
now , Stan B. argue that Marinello 's service be in fact indispensible as move coordinator , and that ethic standard be not a suicide pact , so that since we absolutely need she the EB have the right to go ahead and retain she .
I agree with the principle .
but I think that to make this argument work the EB would have to produce some evidence that Marinello really be indispensible for this task .
this would have to include evidence that the EB have consider all the alternative , include : - delegate the whole thing to the Interim ED , which would be the normal practice in normal organization with a ed - ask the Interim ED to designate someone from the New Windsor staff to act as move coordinator - ask the Interim ED to hire some other consultant with experience in office relocation to manage the job -lrb- there be such people -rrb- - conduct some kind of actual search for candidate for the position during the last two month since the move be decide upon if they do consider alternative , it would also have to include evidence that Marinello have much more experience at relocate office than other people , or be willing to do the job cheaper -lrb- although this would not constitute be `` indispensible '' in my view -rrb- .
if , however , they just look around the room and say `` who be go to manage this ? ''
and someone say , `` Beatriz , how about you ? ''
, this do not constitute proof that she service be indispensible , and thus it would not interfere with my belief that there have be a ethic violation and a bylaw violation .
one very bad argument that be make by Kevin Bachler , which to be fair be surround by arguably better one , be that since this board be elect , we should let they do as they please .
which be to say that there might as well not be bylaw , ethic standard , law , etc. , since a elect board be not bind by any of they .
I think this idea should be reject .
another argument , which be better but still disturbing , be that , yes , this be a ethic violation , and maybe worse , but it would only hurt the uscf to talk about it , and that only troublemaker like Sam Sloan , Larry Parr , and , I suppose , I , would talk about it , since do so will obstruct the federation 's plan , cause we to pay legal expense , run the risk of we be stick without any office space at all , cause people not to loan we money , and so forth .
so we should all ignore this because it be realistic to do so .
I be not entirely unsympathetic to this , actually .
but frankly I think that a whole lot of the problem the USCF have have over the year have have to do with well-intentioned people keep secret because bring they out in the open would harm the USCF , and as a result we have awful habit which hurt the USCF even worse .
but if we be go to talk about realism , here be another realistic concern : I predict that , if , in fact , the rumor about the agenda for the Florida meeting prove true , and Marinello resign as President and be hire as move coordinator , the immediate result of this be that Sam Sloan will file another lawsuit -lrb- or amend he current complaint -rrb- charge the USCF EB member with self-dealing , violation of the USCF 's own bylaw , and every other thing , report we to the IRS , and demand that all USCF money which might be use to pay Marinello be freeze .
this be not base on any communication from Sam , direct or indirect .
it be just logical .
if he be willing to file a lawsuit on the basis of New York non-profit organization law , which might or might not be applicable to the USCF , why would not he file a lawsuit on the basis of the USCF 's violation of its own bylaw , which unquestionably be applicable to the USCF ?
I write a few day ago quote my own employer association 's attorney , who say that court mostly let association do what they want unless they violate they own bylaw .
it be irritating enough to get sue by Sam Sloan ; imagine how irritating it would be to get sue by Sam Sloan and BEATEN by Sam Sloan because you have do something so egregious that a court be force to agree with he .
petrel
OT : new stuff on US election fraud Chris Rockcliffe wed , 29 Dec 2004 00:28:16 +0000 OT : new stuff on US election fraud US election fraud : whisper grow to a roar now a person state he be republican insider be blow the whistle , indicate that the fraud be much greater than just a handful of vote in Ohio and Florida .
the Ukraine have nothing on it .
accord to this person Kerry win decisively not only in Ohio and Florida but also in a number of other States and in the overall popular vote .
he say he know how the fraud be work .
could this be why so many in the Bush gang have be jump ship ?
how will it affect the two sniveller John Howard and Tony Blair if the whistleblowing become as insistent as it do over the far , far lesser offence of Richard Nixon or the personal indiscretion of Bill Clinton ?
the article be at .
thanks to Tony Troughton-Smith for post this article on the StopMAI WA newsgroup .
see for a statement by Michel Chussudovsky about the host site .
Dion Giles Western Australia Voter Fraud in Florida and Ohio : Kerry Won the election by at least 1,7 Million vote by Brad Menfil The url of this article be : ---------- Brad Menfil be not my real name .
I work for the rnc -lsb- Republican National Committee -rsb- .
I fear reprisal if I be find out .
the truth about this election be this : Florida and Ohio have to go for Bush in order for he to `` win '' the election .
in reality he lose both state .
in fact , he do not even win the popular vote .
he lose the national popular vote by at least 1,750,000 .
this show you the scale of the fraud .
the exit poll be not wrong .
Kerry be the clear winner , but victory be snatch from he .
Florida first .
the 200,000 + margin of victory for Bush make this state uncontestable .
everybody assume that even with some fraud , Kerry could never have make up the difference in a recount .
but Kerry actually win by about 750,000 vote .
the number be change by a computer program -lrb- in both electronic and scan-tron voting system -rrb- call `` KerryLite . ''
`` KerryLite '' of course be not actual name of the program .
the actual name be 11-5-18-18 etc. .
for additional encryption , the number be jumble but I be not sure in which order .
the number replace the letter of the alphabet .
for example , k be the eleventh letter of the alphabet .
so the if-then statement go something like this : `` if total true Kerry -rrb- total true Bush , Bush x 1.04 x -lrb- .04 be a random number -rrb- -lrb- total true Kerry -rrb- , total true Bush '' .
the second part of the equation take the total number of vote cast and subtract the new Bush total , subtract the third party total and leave the rest for Kerry .
sometimes the program would also reduce third party vote and award they to Bush .
and even where Bush legitimately win , he be still award additional vote .
the big democratic county -lrb- Broward for example -rrb- go to Kerry because it have to appear that everything be on the up and up .
it be interesting to see this unfold .
do anybody wonder why the Republican county be mostly count after the democratic county ?
you should wonder , and also know that this be no accident .
the Bush team have to make up the vote as the night go on .
in Ohio , computer voting fraud , vote toss and voter suppression be the main method .
vote toss be simply the removal of Kerry vote and some third party vote .
in some area , the Bush vs. Kerry vote be absurd .
nine to one , eight to two .
Voter suppression take the form of make voter stand in four hour long line .
this of course take place in democratic area .
the simplest thing to do be to have too few voting machine .
sometimes that be all it take .
people eventually lose patience and leave without cast a vote .
in other state such as New Mexico , Nevada , Iowa and New Hampshire , Kerry 's lead evaporate very quickly once the poll be shut down .
Kerry only win New Hampshire , but barely .
as it turn out , the lead be 6 % for Kerry in that state and not enough fraudulent activity take place to flip the state to Bush .
so this will all come out and be know to everyone .
nothing this massive can be keep a secret .
you be already begin to see these `` irregularity '' and the whisper will become a roar .
George Gleason wed , 29 Dec 2004 00:38:33 GMT Re : OT : new stuff on US election fraud as much as I would like this to be true I do not believe a word of it i doubt even Dan Rather would take it to broadcast you need something a bit more than a anony internet post to make this anything more than what it be a garbage post by a anony rabble rouser troll a dead horse about town George
Bush have no shame -lrb- npc -rrb- bomagosh yndit 15 Dec 2004 12:54:29 -0800 Bush have no shame -lrb- npc -rrb- I really could not believe what I be watch while Bush put medal on talent , Franks and Bremer .
talent be in charge of the CIA when two of the most costly intelligence failure in american history happen -- not recognize the Sept. 11 plot , and wrongly claim that Saddam have a stockpile of wmd .
even people who mindlessly defend Bush 's policy , like wjb67 , do not want to take responsibility for talent -- they point out that he be originally appoint by Clinton .
Franks be in charge of the operation that be suppose to quickly go in , take over Iraq , and then start move we troops out rapidly -- at this point I think we be go to see we troops over there at least through the end of the decade .
and Bremer decide to destroy the exist iraqi army , leave it up to we and new recruit to try to impose order .
this be just one more of those wierd , through-the-looking-glass moment when Bush be try to make something that at the very least have to be see as troubling , and that I consider a unmitigated failure , into a success .
rpmoria...@aol.com 15 Dec 2004 13:01:46 -0800 Re : Bush have no shame -lrb- npc -rrb- troubling indeed ... I will say go a little easier on franks-not that he deserve a medal - than the other two idiot though .
he be not give very much to work with -- Cheney and Rummy be the one to blame for the screw up war plans-of course I be sure they will get they medal too .
Bush be one of those guy that just see how he want to see , and that be a terrible trait for a leader to have -- rose-colored something something I beleive it be call .
now THIS be a argument against Bush I can throw my arm around !
JB wed , 15 Dec 2004 16:16:16 -0500 Re : Bush have no shame -lrb- npc -rrb- he name be Georege TENET .
if you be go to spread you hatred about someone , spell they name right .
good thing Bush be easy to spell ...
war with Iran YEMcGrupp 17 Feb 2005 15:04:45 -0800 war with Iran blast at a Iran nuclear facility Iran blame US US break news of terrorist attack in near future sound like some heavy war rhetoric to I .
peace Jim Coreyboy18 17 Feb 2005 15:57:33 -0800 Re : War with Iran Ok , so if Iran be say that they be move forward with they nuclear program for science and friendly nuclear energy , why be the US so worried ?
they be just try to produce energy , as we have several nuclear power plant .
and all the demand to Syria ... this all seem so predictable .
and if you be wonder , this be the link I get that from ... I like this quote the best , but I be sure it mean nothing to we -lrb- we be the US 's power that be -rrb- ... `` the iranian nation be not look for war , violence and confrontation , '' Khatami say .
well guess what Khatami , you be in for it .
Corey No Names please thu , 17 Feb 2005 19:13:38 -0500 Re : War with Iran because they be lie .
they be one of the world biggest supplier of oil .
why do they need a nuclear power plant ?
you have no problem with syria ?
so you believe he when he say that iran be not look for it , but you do not believe the US when we say that we be not ?
Buck The Trend Thu , 17 Feb 2005 19:35:38 -0500 Re : War with Iran about 3 day ago I say to my wife ... `` shit in the world be go to get ugly fast . ''
and although I wish we would not have to do this ... we may have to flex we muscle again soon .
I think we be screw with N. Korea , but Syria and Iran be really test we .
Syria 's move in Lebanon may cause they to get they ass hand to they soon .
Moondog Thu , 17 Feb 2005 19:52:32 -0600 Re : War with Iran please .
this be a cop-out response .
the reason we be so worried be because we be on a higher level than 90 % of the world because we have nucler weapon .
if country we do not like start develop nuclear weapons-grade material it make we nervous .
although so far , iran have show that they be * not * produce weapons-grade material and be in fact use they nuclear power for just that , accord to the IAEA .
but when you have a sit president who have a infatuation with provoke other country into a war , you can bet that he will try everything he can to try to prove he case against iran .
maybe because oil be a much bigger pollute source of energy than nuclear ?
or maybe because it be more cost effective for they to use nuclear than any other method ?
why should they run they energy supply off of one of they backbone industry when oil be worth more to they on the open market ?
-- `` I be not allow to ever come up with a single original thought .
and I be not allow to meet the criminal government agent who oppress I . ''
-- they might be giant Moondog Thu , 17 Feb 2005 19:54:03 -0600 Re : War with Iran we be definitely try to do too many thing at once , but syria have be fuck with the lebanese since before we come along .
it be only become more noticeable because there be so much * more * focus on the middle east right now than ever before .
Moondog Fri , 18 Feb 2005 01:30:55 -0600 Re : War with Iran it be not a question of whether i believe iran be tell the truth .
the question be ask : why be the US scared of iran , and you response be `` because they be lie '' .
this be a cop-out because you be not really prove anything , you be just make accusation without proof .
ok , they make a very very small amount of a material that could maybe be use in a weapon if they have more of it possibly .
but the fact be that iran be cooperate with most of the international community on this issue , whether you believe they or not .
this be about nuclear proliferation , not iraq 's insurgency .
i think that if they have proof of iran 's assistance to iraqi insurgent that it can be deal with later , once iraq be secure and able to handle its own affair .
for now , we be talk about the iranian nuclear program , not iraq .
no name please Fri , 18 Feb 2005 01:45:37 -0500 Re : War with Iran if you choose to believe they , that be you choice .
i will go with the IAEA , the european and the US who believe that iran be lie .
i tend to believe the free country of the west over a closed fundamentalist gov ' t like not if you have a meltdown or need to get rid of spend fuel rod .
also , i would doubt one of the biggest exporter of oil be that concern with be environmentally syria have occupy lebanon , they be in violation of security council resolution 1559 state that there should be no foreign force in lebanon and that lebabon should be allow to have free election .
we alliance to they be support people that want to have a free democratically elect gov ` t. finish the statement : then we will refer they to the security council .
what exactly be wrong with that ?
that be the type of diplomatic solution that all of the anti-war people want for iraq .
of course a whole bunch of resolution do nothing in iraq , but who know , maybe this time they will work .
personally , base on the aggressive stance they have take and the way they be help the insurgency in iraq , i tend to not believe they when they say that they be not look for a confrontation .
there be one Carousel organization again rapid T. Rabbit 17 Feb 2005 17:19:51 -0800 there be one Carousel organization again I just receive the latest issue of Merry-Go-Roundup , the quarterly publication of the National Carousel Association .
in it be a blurb report that the american Carousel Society have recently disband .
some of you may be wonder why there be two carousel organization in the first place .
the National Carousel Association be found in the early 1970 's by a group of art historian and collector , include Frederick Fried , author of the 1964 book `` a pictorial history of the Carousel '' that single-handedly give the classic hand-carved wooden carousel the respect and appreciation it deserve .
other founder include Charlotte Dinger , who be already a major collector of carousel artwork at the time .
the purpose of the NCA be `` to promote conservation , appreciation , knowledge and enjoyment of the art of the classic wooden carousel and especially the preservation of complete wooden carousel . ''
the organization attract a wide range of member , include carousel enthusiast , owners/operators , theme and amusement park , museum , library , those in the entertainment/recreation industry , art collector and even auction house , among other .
it be the presence of these last two name group that would eventually stir up controversy .
thanks in large part to the NCA , the art of the carousel be receive a lot of public attention and appreciation that it have not enjoy before .
however , this new and brighter spotlight on these antique ride also have the unfortunate effect of enhance the collectibility and monetary value of operational carousel .
they have become worth more money dead -lrb- i.e. in piece -rrb- than alive -lrb- i.e. function -rrb- .
as such , during the 1980 's many beautiful and unique wooden carousel would be break up at the auction block , as owner rush to cash in on the antique marketplace .
the liability insurance crisis further aggravate the situation , as amusement park operator seek to cut they loss , while at the same time liquidate underperform carousel to raise capital for the purchase of newer and more profitable -lrb- thrill -rrb- ride .
some collector of carousel art and auction house be accuse of use they NCA affiliation to gain information about vintage carousel that they could target for breakup to they own personal profit , a practice certainly contrary to the state goal of the organization .
the increase rift between the `` preservationist '' and `` collector '' would eventually boil over into a internal political struggle that cause many in the collector faction of the NCA to walk out of the group , include founder such as Charlotte Dinger and other .
the preservationist would choose to remain with the NCA , include Fred Fried .
at this time in the late 1970 's , carousel artwork collector and printer Marge Swenson be the editor of the NCA 's Merry-Go-Roundup publication .
the political struggle that occur within the nca result in two slate of officer be present for approval to the membership , something that be not suppose to happen .
a thicker-than-usual issue of the Roundup would be fill with accusation from both faction in the group each accuse the other of improper behavior .
Swenson herself would also leave the NCA .
not much later , she begin publish she own magazine call `` Carousel Art '' , which be essentially a scholarly photo album depict different carver and style each month .
meanwhile , those collector who leave the National Carousel Association band together to form the american Carousel Society -lrb- ACS -rrb- , whose state aim of carousel preservation also recognize collector as a positive asset towards that goal .
for the next couple of decade , the two carousel organization would co-exist , each attract its share of member .
some would actually join both group , and even attend both of they annual convention .
during the mid-1980 's Walter Louck would begin publish `` the Carousel Trader '' , later rename `` the Carousel News & Trader '' .
this monthly magazine would cover all angle and side of the story of the carousel and be well receive by all carousel enthusiast .
about a decade later , Carousel Art would suddenly cease publication .
the NCA would continue to issue the Roundup to its member .
the mid to late 1990 's see the passing of NCA founder Fred Fried , and also that of Charlotte Dinger , both who represent the two opposite point of view in the carousel preservation debate .
coincidentally and amazingly , the art of building hand-carved carousel -lrb- and even bandorgan -rrb- have be revive , with firm such as Carousel Works and Carousel Magic again build the popular ride in classic design .
this development seem to have greatly alleviate the antique marketplace pressure that have doom so many legacy wooden carousel over the past several decade .
the turn of the new millenium actually witnessese a thaw in the relationship between the National Carousel Association and American Carousel Society , as newer and younger leadership take over from the founding generation .
the two group decide that the bickering between they be wasteful , conterproductive and pointless .
there be talk of a -lrb- re -rrb- merger but the regulation govern non-profit prevent that .
however , it be decide that NCA and ACS hold joint convention to save on cost to both the club and the member .
just within the past couple of month though , the american Carousel Society have determine that they do not have the funding to continue with the operation of they organization and officially cease to exist .
so now , once again there be a single nationwide organization to join if you love carousel !
rapid T. Rabbit
Club Sports policy at school ; specifically travel restriction d-c...@northwestern.edu 9 Feb 2005 19:02:57 -0800 Club Sports policy at school ; specifically travel restriction hello everyone - I be attempt to learn more information about the policy of various athletic department at school , specifically with regard to ultimate team .
at Northwestern , the Men 's Ultimate team fall under the Club Sports department which fall into a dark , barely light corner of the Athletic Department .
there be some restriction on what we can and can not do .
the one that I be most interested in compare to similar policy at other school concern we ability to travel .
at Northwestern , we be allow to either rent school van for no charge or take we own vehicle to tournament within 300 mile of Evanston , il .
also , we be allow to fly , take a bus , or take Amtrak to any tournament we want , no matter how far away it be .
we be allow to compete under the Northwestern name if we take any of these option .
however , it often occur that we want to go to a tournament farther than 300 mile without fly .
-lrb- for example , Regionals be often slightly farther than 300 mile , yet a reasonable drive . -rrb-
if we choose to do so , it be understand that we be not officially compete under the Northwestern name - we be just a group of people play ultimate at a tournament and not involve the university in any way .
do any of you other college player face similar restriction in you travel ?
what be you school ' policy ?
I be interested in both the response of player at public and private school .
feel free to email I if you do want to post to the forum .
thanks for you help .
Cesa Northwestern d-c...@northwestern.edu SeanMcC...@gmail.com 9 Feb 2005 19:20:39 -0800 Re : Club Sports policy at school ; specifically travel restriction man ... you guy have it so sweet .
Pitt get $ 2000/year towards competition .
that mean bid , hotel , transportation , jersey -lrb- I do have to mention , we jersey this year be hot -rrb- .
that doesnt go very far , and that a hard cap on anything related to competition for all competetive club sport team .
next year we will be budgeting we jersey as `` practice jersey '' however , so we hope they will be pay for .
the point be , $ 2k get we to about a tournament and a half use University transportation .
I dont know about play officially under the university 's name , or why that matter really .
as long as the registrar sign off on the roster for the UPA , doesnt the importance of University affiliation become moot ?
d-c...@northwestern.edu 9 Feb 2005 19:35:51 -0800 Re : Club Sports policy at school ; specifically travel restriction I should clarify that NU do not specifically pay for we to fly - we get a budget as well .
we pay for we flights/rental car out of pocket .
I be specifically interested in the `` drive radius '' , as we call it .
what be you school 's ?
it matter for liability question .
Cesa cots...@yahoo.com 9 Feb 2005 19:52:48 -0800 Re : Club Sports policy at school ; specifically travel restriction at SUNY Albany in NY , about as state school as you can get , we get about 500 less than what you be talk about at Pitt .
we school do not really care what we do at tournament or how far away we be .
we take we own car to every tournament , even one down in Maryland .
the money we get from we student association have to pay for jersey , be suppose to help we with tournament , etc. .
every tournament we team go to , we each pay 10-20 buck out of pocket .
if you be a ultimate frisbee team and sleep in hotel ... consider yourself as spoil as a ultimate team get in my opinion .
you get ta learn how to save money .
most tournament will house you if you ask and explain you situation .
if we can not get housing , we camp out somewhere .
at Binghamton this year we throw up a tent on the high jump mat -lrb- which I must say be very comfortable -rrb- .
regional 2 year ago , we team and about 7 other could not afford housing at Princeton so we camp way way out back on the field and hang out all night .
for you northwestern guy , you really need to get in touch with someone at you school that will listen .
we school do not like we for a long time , but we behave ourselves , and very respectfully approach various people , work we way up the ladder , about change some policy .
Start off low , and work you way up .
explain to they that if you be drive you own car , you should be able to go wherever you want , and even throw in there if for any reason you bring shame to the university , you will go right back to the old policy no question ask .
how often do you go to a tournament and whatever happen there get back to administration ?
pretty much never so you safe with that offer .
another thing we do be have a lot of fundraiser on campus , enter banner contest for sport event , etc. .
once the school see that unlike a lot of club , we be bust we ass to fundraise and get involve with school activity , they whole attitude towards we change .
sell disc , sell pint glass , then go to someone , more than one person , and show they what kind of effort you be put in .
a lot of school official do not understand how structured ultimate actually be .
go in and explain to they about Regionals not just be some little `` get together '' but actually be a championship series .
Hope my rambling give you some idea that might work ~ squirrel PS CLIPBOARD now , SEAN for the future !!!!!!!!!!!
renewal of marriage vow on carnival cruise eric...@verizon.net 16 Feb 2005 13:36:29 -0800 renewal of marriage vow on carnival cruise have anybody out there see this do ?
I see somewhere on they site there be a lot of prep time need to get marry onboard .
I wonder if its easier just renew you vow as my wife have be look for this for a while .
go out on the sensation in March for we 18th anniverary .
Howie Wed , 16 Feb 2005 19:22:33 -0500 Re : renewal of marriage vow on carnival cruise my wife and I be guest at a wedding on the Carnival Legend on New year Eve 2003 .
all the guest be folk who have meet the bride and groom -lrb- a attractive young couple who be sailing alone -rrb- virtually on cruisecritic .
the wedding take place in the afternoon , before the ship set sail .
thus , the couple be actual marry by a justice of the peace in the state of Florida .
it be a great way to begin a cruise .
although I be not certain of this , I assume that renew you vow could actually be do while the ship be at sea , because it would not involve any legal issue .
Howie Len C. wed , 16 Feb 2005 22:48:03 -0500 Re : renewal of marriage vow on carnival cruise - have anybody out there see this do ?
I do not know the detail , but on my last cruise there be a large wedding go on .
the bride be all deck out in she long gown and veil , groom in tux and the other wedding party all dress to the nines !
they have one of the larger lounge close off for a private reception .
I do not think it be allow any more , but 30 minute until sail a announcement be make that all NON CRUISE guest must make they way to disembark the ship prior to sailing .
I have never hear that announcement before so I assume that it be for the people attend the wedding on board ?
this be the largest wedding gathering I have ever see on board ... maybe someone have connection ???
the bride be still visible later into the evening still wear she wedding gown on the Lido deck !
Len ... durango_...@alltel.net Thu , 17 Feb 2005 19:14:51 -0500 Re : renewal of marriage vow on carnival cruise on 16 Feb 2005 13:36:29 -0800 , we renew we vow on Carnival Conquest on 10/31/2004 - you need to contact Carnival wedding department and ask if they have any wedding/renewal package available .
these usally take a little time to set up - if you be go in March I be not sure if/what would be available to you .
they be just start a new renewal of vow program , which include all we rec would , but be cheaper .
since we have already pay for we package we keep it .
have a very nice ceremony with a justice of the peace and a small reception for the family member travel with we .
call Carnival wedding Dept. at 1 -lrb-800-rrb-933-4968 or send a email to : weddi...@carnival.com happy anniversary and enjoy you cruise !
Mary in NC
Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess StephenM Tue , 22 Feb 2005 08:13:13 GMT Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess I be take a 7 day cruise with Princess in March and apply for my $ 100 Carnival Corp. .
shareholder onboard credit .
turn out that my travel Agent have a ` group ' cruise on this ship and my $ 50/pp credit due to the ` group ' cruise make I ineligible for the shareholder credit .
this really make a mockery of the shareholder credit as almost every cruise have some sort of small credit attach .
$ 100 will not break the bank or make the cruise less enjoyable , nor will I stop be a shareholder , but I do find this sort of thing irritating .
Stephen George Leppla Tue , 22 Feb 2005 08:04:07 -0500 Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess this be incorrect .
have you TA get in touch with Rebecca Faroy at Carnival Corp 's Investor 's Relations department .
it seem that some Princess people be not fully aware of the correct policy .
the shareholder credit do apply to group booking .
-- George in pa miracle in May - The Mother of All Group Cruises 2 - rieker5.nospam.e...@hotmail.com tue , 22 Feb 2005 10:10:27 -0500 Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess George have it right .
I have be on two group cruise and receive my shareholder credit for both .
-lrb- one Carnival Cruise , one HAL cruise -rrb- anyone have a idea if they will renew the shareholder credit arrangement ?
as it be now , it expire July 1 , I think .
John & Beverly Tue , 22 Feb 2005 10:23:19 -0600 Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess Liza McDaniel in Yield Management deny we the shareholder discount last Thanksgiving because we TA have include we in a group .
John rieker5.nospam.e...@hotmail.com Tue , 22 Feb 2005 11:25:57 -0500 Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess FYI one other item ... do you contact Princess to submit you shareholder doc ?
the Carnival office in Florida only accept doc for Carnival cruise ... the other Carnival property have to be contact directly to submit shareholder doc .
ex : I send my doc to HAL in Seattle for my HAL cruise , even though Carnival own HAL .
Bob Tue , 22 Feb 2005 08:33:03 -0800 Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess you can get the larger of the shipboard credit .
until recently you could combine the stockholder credit with the credit for book on board , but not with those from you agent .
the most recent Carnival report under shareholder Benefit say , `` not combinable with any other shipboard offer '' .
therefore I recently sell my stock .
-lrb- make a nice profit . -rrb-
on tue , 22 Feb 2005 08:13:13 GMT , '' rieker5.nospam.e...@hotmail.com Tue , 22 Feb 2005 11:39:44 -0500 Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess Me , too , though I be no stock guru .
I can not figure a place to put my $ $ other than the cruise industry .
report I read sound pretty rosey compare to other part of the economy .
Tobie Gerbrandt Tue , 22 Feb 2005 16:54:12 GMT Re : Carnival Corp - shareholder discount on Princess do not give up .
I believe that clause actually refer to promo cruise etc. and not to discount , or shipboard credit offer by you TA .
I have double up on shareholder credit on both Carnival Corp. cruise and rcl cruise .
maybe you need a different travel agent .
Tobie on a island in the Pacific
post-trip report - London ohaya sit , 01 Jan 2005 18:00:00 -0500 post-trip report - London Hi All , we * just * get back into Washington last evening , after we brief 5-day trip to London .
thanks for all of the response to my earlier inquiry , I be happy to report that everything go pretty well , but both my wife and I be pretty beat/tired .
we get into Heathrow on Monday morning .
at the airport , I get some cash from the Barclays ATM just outside the arrival area , as many have suggest .
FYI , I just check my bank account , and we get charge a $ 2.00 fee and the exchange rate be around $ 1.92 / GPB .
after that , we take the underground into London .
Zone 1-6 all-day pass cost 5.40 gbp each .
that be pretty easy ... the most difficult part be find the hotel once we finally get off at the final tube station .
the hotel be nice enough to let we check in , even though we be a bit early -lrb- we get in around 12:30 , normal check-in time be 14:30 -rrb- , which we be really grateful for , after drag we bag for a couple of hour .
after settle into the hotel room -lrb- my wife be a `` unpack everything-and-stow it '' type of person -rrb- , we go to do a little explore .
be that this be a holiday , a lot of the local place be close -lrb- include restaurant in the hotel -rrb- , but we find a kind of combo newsagent/foodstore nearby , and we pick up a 5 gbp call card -lrb- for call home -rrb- and some drink -lrb- 1.59 gpb for ~ 2 liter Pepsi light , .98 gbp for a ~ 2 liter water -rrb- .
it take we awhile , but we find a restaurant/pub -lrb- White swan -rrb- that be open .
it seem like a kind of local place , and the woman that be run the place be very nice .
when we walk in , we stand around wait to be seat :-rrb- , and she say `` this be a pub , sit anywhere , and order at the bar '' .
I gather -lrb- from that and a few visit at other pub -rrb- that that be the norm .
anyway , we have a nice late lunch : fish and chip -lrb- with `` mashed pea '' -rrb- for I , and a beef pie for my wife .
FYI , this be probably the most reasonable meal that we have during we whole visit .
that night , we walk around the area around the Victoria underground station , because we be suppose to meet up with a tour the next morning .
while there , we find a local Sainsbury -lrb- kind of a small supermarket -rrb- about 2 block from the underground station , and stock up on some cheese , milk , and croissant .
price here be a bit cheaper than the local foodstore , and during we trip , I make several trip here :-rrb- .
we be not sure what we want to eat for dinner , so we just wander around a bit , and finally end up at a `` steakhouse '' near the station ... big mistake .
the food , service , and price be very bad ... I guess we should have figure that one out when 3 other party walk out after be seat , but unfortunately , we have already order , so we feel kind of obligate to finish .
I do not know if this be the case with all `` steakhouse '' , but we stay away from they all after that :-lrb- .
we take a all day bus tour -lrb- Evan Evans -rrb- , include the London Eye .
take the underground to Victoria , and walk to the Victoria coach Station -lrb- it be NOT the same :-rrb- -rrb- .
I think that the tour be a pretty good way to get introduce to part of the city .
we get to see a lot in a short time , include extend tour of Westminster -lrb- feel kind of strange walk over dead people -rrb- and the tower of London -lrb- neat ! -rrb-
.
this tour include lunch at another pub near Trafalgar Square -lrb- more beef pie for we -rrb- , and the tour guide be very good , and kind of funny .
it be kind of like travel with a `` grand dad '' and he do he best to keep we all together .
at the end of the land tour , we go on ride on one of the Thames cruise boat -lrb- warning , it be freeze on the top deck ... -rrb- , and then a ride on the London Eye .
all in all , recommend , but afterwards , both my wife and I agree that a `` all-day '' tour be too exhausting -lrb- even on a bus tour , you have to do a lot of walk especially get to the change of the Guards and at the London Tower -rrb- , and we probably would have prefer break it into 21/2 day tour .
we also take one of the hop-on/hop-off bus tour -lrb- the `` original '' -rrb- on one of the other day , as we think it be the easiest way to get around to the place that we want to re-visit .
a couple of comment : take the one with the live guide if you can , as it be much more interesting than the one with the record commentary -lrb- you can ask question -rrb- .
also , if you want to get a seat on the top deck , take one of the earlier bus , as at least when we be there , it be impossible to get a seat on top later in the day , and you can not see much from the lower -lrb- enclose -rrb- deck -lrb- but it be much warmer :-rrb- ! -rrb-
.
we have be buy the 2-zone all-day tube pass -lrb- 4.20 gbp each -rrb- everyday , just to get around to dinner and shopping on we own , but by the time this be all over , my wife do not feel like take the underground back to Heathrow , so we have ask the hotel conceierge to make a reservation on a airport bus -lrb- 15 gbp each -rrb- , but he instead offer that he could get we a private car direct to the airport for 35 gbp , which be what we do .
this be perfect , because it get we door-to-door from the hotel to LHR Terminal 3 with no hassle at all .
I would not have do that from lhr to the hotel , but since the concierge be arrange it , I feel that it would be safe , and the driver turn out to be pretty nice .
overall , it be a enjoyable , but really exhausting trip -lrb- we live in the suburb , so I guess we be not use to walk everywhere -rrb- .
luckily this be not a `` shopping '' trip , because thing be -lrb- at least from Americans -rrb- really expensive .
I think that if I be deal in gpb all the time , it would not seem so bad , but I remember sit at the ice cream -lrb- `` gelato '' ? -rrb-
counter at Harrods , and watch two little kid , each eat some sundae that cost 15 GPB each -lrb- $ 30.00 -rrb- , and think `` wow ! ''
.
Jim Deep Frayed Morgues Sun , 02 Jan 2005 10:41:54 GMT Re : post-trip report - London oh dear !
spot the Americans !
:o-rrb- Angus Steakhouse by any chance ?
I have never hear anything but bad stuff about they .
they be not british in the food sense , that be for sure .
pub food be usually a good bet in the UK .
that be a Europe thing .
the city invariably involve a lot of walk , and this be see as a pleasure , not a task .
that be very expensive , even by London standard .
Harrods be Harrods though , and most people go there to be blow away by the price .
of course everyone feel compel to buy ` something ' .
I opt for a few chocolate , which be very good .
good report of a good trip , even if you do fall for a couple of the tourist trap !
-- -- dfm - -- --
comment on suggest travel plan through New England Ringo Langly 27 Jan 2005 22:21:56 -0800 comment on suggest travel plan through New England Hi all , I live in Austin , tx , and be one who be only be as far as Nashville , Tn two friend and I be plan a trip to New England for a week .
I would love some insight or suggestion on we trip itinerary -- first i go to Expedia and do some flight check .
we be plan on go July 4th week -- what better time to be in Boston I figure :-rrb- Saturday , July 2nd - fly from Austin , tx to Boston and stay with friend live in Boston Sunday , July 3rd - Hang around Boston and stay with friend Monday , July 4th - Hang around Boston and stay with friend Tuesday , July 5th - leave early and drive to Niagara Falls , NY - 467 mile - Stay in Niagara Falls Wednesday , July 6th - leave from Niagara Falls and drive to Toronto , on - 85 mile - drive back to Niagara Falls that evening - 85 mile - Stay in Niagara Falls Thursday , July 7th - leave Niagara Falls and drive to Red Bank , NY - 435 mile - Stay in Red Bank for the night - we want to hit-up Jay and Silent Bob 's silent Stash Friday , July 8th - drive back to Boston pass through New York -- do whatever -- 262 Miles from Red bank to Boston but add whatever mile from New York - Stay the night with friend in Boston Saturday , July 9th - fly back to Austin I figure stay in Red Bank , NJ , which be not far from NYC , be cheaper then stay in the city .
plus while drive back north to Boston we can spend the day in NYC .
I know there be way too much to do , but I have another friend who work at the met I will try to hook-up with .
we will plan we few hour in NYC wisely .
also we be hang in Boston for so many night to visit with the friend there and hit the sight in that area .
also this be a vacation , so we hope to spend some time just chill .
any suggestion on change ?
we have 3 people go , and Expedia show the flight -lrb- round trip -rrb- and a rental car with unlimited mile be $ 1430 , plus I be figure about $ 150 for gas and at $ 120 a night for hotel that be $ 360 total for that .
so total cost -lrb- without food , spend cash , parking , toll road , etc -rrb- be $ 1910 or about $ 637 each .
I be figure about $ 850 per person should be plenty for everything -- and that be not bad for 7 night in New Enland with all the stuff we be plan .
do I miss anything or do anyone see any suggestion or change that might either save money or make we trip more worthwild ?
thanks again , and take care , Ringo oh -- what kinda weather can we expect up there during July ?
Texas be in the 100 's normally , so I hope the average for July in New England be a fare bit cooler :-rrb- b Vaughan Fri , 28 Jan 2005 13:51:33 +0100 Re : comment on suggest travel plan through New England -lsb- snip -rsb- unless there be something in particular you want to see in Toronto , I do not see any reason to make this long side trip .
I would suggest head back to Red Bank or wherever and try to carve out a extra day in New York City .
you can find hotel in you price range , especially with three share a room .
you might want to drop off the car somewhere near Red Bank , or as soon as you arrive in New York , if the drop off charge be not too much .
then you could spend part of one day in New York -lrb- and a good part of the next day , assume you drop Toronto -rrb- .
then you could take the train or bus back to Boston .
it might work out cheaper in the long run , especially when you consider the cost of parking in New York .
-- Barbara Vaughan my email address be my first initial follow by my last name at libero dot it .
Ringo Langly 28 Jan 2005 06:42:55 -0800 Re : comment on suggest travel plan through New England .
Hi everyone , thanks for all the great reply !!
this be exactly what I be look for :-rrb- the main reason I would like to goto Toronto and Niagara Falls be mainly because it be so close .
.
but I agree New York would be nice to spend a few day in .
I know the bulk of we trip be in Boston , but we have friend live up there we hope to spend a few day with visit .
the trip be both to visit with they and to spend time around New England .
as for gas , what be the go rate for gas right now in New England ?
here in Texas it be around $ 1.60 - $ 1.75 for Reg Unleadded , but i be figure $ 1.90 a gallon .
be this not accurate ?
here be how I figure the price I be factor in -- Boston to Niagara Falls - 467 Miles Niagara Falls to Toronto - 85 Miles and 85 Miles back Niagara Falls to Red Bank , NJ - 435 Miles Red Bank , NJ to Boston -lrb- plus spend some time in NYC -rrb- - 262 Total be 1334 , but I be figure 1500 with some extra for around NYC and various town we visit .
we be get a mid-sized vehicle , so if the car get 20 mpg that be 75 gallon use .
this time $ 1.90 be $ 145.50 or around that .
even if gas be $ 2.00 a gallon that be still only around $ 150 , so I think $ 200 + for gas be a rather high estimate .
also be it possible to take a train from Boston to NYC ?
if so how do that work or what be the cost ?
I be from Texas where we drive everywhere , and I have never even set foot on a train -- so forgive I if this be a weird question :-rrb- thanks again for all the insight and help .
though I have never be up there I have always want to see both Niagara Falls and Toronto , so be so close I almost hate to miss a opportunity .
take care , Ringo
do you miss the inaugural address ?
Paul Mitchum sit , 22 Jan 2005 18:53:52 -0800 Re : do you miss the inaugural address ?
the administration 's approach to history be at odds with what have be describe by a communication adviser to the president as the `` reality-based community . ''
a dumb phrase , but not a dumb thought : he mean that the administration see history as dynamic and changeable , not static and impervious to redirection or improvement .
that be the Bush administration way , and it happen to be realistic : history be dynamic and changeable .
on the other hand , some thing be constant , such as human imperfection , injustice , misery and bad government .
this world be not heaven .
the president 's speech seem rather heavenish .
it be a god-drenched speech .
this president , who have be accuse of give too much attention to religious imagery and religious thought , have not let the criticism enter he .
God be invoke relentlessly .
`` the author of Liberty . ''
`` God move and choose as he will .
we have confidence because freedom be the permanent hope of mankind ... the longing of the soul . ''
end tyranny in the world ?
well that be a ambition , and if you be go to have a ambition it might as well be a big one .
but this declaration , which be not wrong by any means , seem to I to land somewhere between dreamy and disturbing .
tyranny be a very bad thing and quite wicked , but one do not expect we be go to eradicate it any time soon .
again , this be not heaven , it be earth .
this be -- how else to put it ?
-- over the top .
it be the kind of sentence that make you wonder if this White House do not , in the preparation period , have a case of what I have call in the past `` mission inebriation . ''
a sense that there be few legitimate boundary to the desire bear in the goodness of they good heart .
one wonder if they should not ease up , calm down , breathe deep , get more securely ground .
the most moving speech summon we to the cause of what be actually possible .
perfection in the life of man on earth be not .
-- Peggy Noonan `` I hear the rumor on the internet . ''
-- George W. Bush Surfact Sun , 23 Jan 2005 06:18:58 GMT Re : do you miss the inaugural address ?
god drench ?
he be in good company .
read lincoln 's rather short 2nd inaugural it be about as `` god drenched ' as you could get .
way more so than bush 's -lrb- god , he , the Lord , etc. -rrb- over and over and over again .
consider the brevity of the speech , you could barely fit any more `` god be '' and such in the address without buy vowel and consonant from vanna at a 5 fer 1 speshul price .
carry on , peggy whit Paul Mitchum Sun , 23 Jan 2005 03:09:45 -0800 Re : do you miss the inaugural address ?
to put it simply -lrb- for you benefit -rrb- : Lincoln speak * of * God , demonstrate the irony of a war fight between people with more similarity -lrb- they religious belief among they -rrb- than difference .
Dubya speak * for * God , demand that we should all fall in line behind he , because he be get the plan , and God 's on he side .
pure religious jingoism .
my favorite part of the speech , though , be this line : you have to admire the sheer audacity of doublespeak like that .
especially when the list of the ` willing ' just go into the circular file a few day ago .
Bush 's inaugural be a announcement that the Bush Doctrine be as much a sale pitch as the WMD justification ; BushCo have not abandon the neocon ideal of a pax americana .
and you , mr. whit , fall for it .
-- `` I hear the rumor on the internet . ''
-- George W. Bush Surfact Sun , 23 Jan 2005 14:42:01 GMT Re : do you miss the inaugural address ?
bull and he have make the point repeatedly in interview after interview that he have never claim to speak for god , nor have he claim that this be `` god 's war '' it be a bunch of histrionic rubbish and complete evasion from the fact tht lincoln 's -lrb- wonderful -rrb- second inaugural be much more `` god drench '' than bush 's no .
i accept the fact that it be not a bad thing that bush mention god .
read the text of bush 's 2nd inaugural read lincoln 's they be both great speech .
peggy noonan be full of it whit Charlie Wilkes Mon , 24 Jan 2005 01:44:53 GMT Re : do you miss the inaugural address ?
I guess it be a matter of personal taste .
some people like Barry Manilow .
it seem to I Bush be get a bit pie-eyed and mystical .
he be carry out God 's destiny to liberate mankind , and trust in God to deliver a favorable outcome for a just cause .
that be a fine sound theory , but the result of Bush 's policy look worse every day .
Charlie
when be a election not a election ?
ltlee1 3 Feb 2005 06:39:37 -0800 when be a election not a election ?
Sunnis say Iraq poll illegitimate .
be there minimal requirement before a election can be consider a legitimate election ?
the recent Iraq election be boycott by the Sunnis which constitute about 20 % of the population .
for example , in a city of 200,000 only 1400 have cast they vote .
many of the 1400 be civil worker and police be Shiites from the south .
in Fallujah , there be 5 voting station with only one vote cast .
be they boycott reasonable ?
if so , should that affect the legitimacy of the election ?
------------------ Sunnis say Iraq poll illegitimate a lead group of iraqi sunnus cleric have say the country 's landmark election lack legitimacy as so many Sunnis do not take part in the vote .
the cleric have encourage Sunnis to boycott the election because of the presence of US and foreign troops .
the US and iraqi authority , as well as the United Nations , have hail the election as a `` victory for democracy '' .
but the Association of muslim scholar say any government elect in the poll will not reflect the people 's will .
`` these election lack legitimacy because a large segment of different sect , party and current with they influence in Iraq boycott , '' the association say in a statement .
`` this necessarily mean the coming national assembly and government that will emerge from it will not possess the legitimacy to enable they to draft the come constitution , '' it say .
the group say whilst it would respect the choice of Iraqis who have choose to vote , it would regard the new government as have only limited power .
-lsb- ... -rsb- PeterL Thu , 3 Feb 2005 08:29:55 -0800 Re : when be a election not a election ?
I guess ltlee be a expert on the legitimacy of a election , as the Chinese have so much experience run election .
guru Google 3 Feb 2005 08:33:28 -0800 Re : when be a election not a election ?
no .
.
ltlee be pretty good to see other problem .
but he do not see he own problem or problem near he -lrb- china -rrb- .
that sound like we eye when we be old , see thing far but forget the nearby .
remember the phoilosopher who observe the star in the sky and fall down by kick a rock he do not see ?
urillan 3 Feb 2005 09:46:15 -0800 Re : when be a election not a election ?
sunnus say the poll be now illegitimate because they choose not to vote .
fundamentally , choose not to vote be actually a vote for the other side .
if you choose not to vote , then you choose to give you opponent all the power .
if the Sunni 's be prevent , or restricted or otherwise not allow to vote , then they could claim illegitimacy , but since the simply just collectively decide not to vote , then they declare the vote legitimate of they own volition whilest simultaneously cede power to all non-sunnis .
if one slice off one 's nose to spite they face , then nobody should be surprise about they complaint of bleeding .
this be another case of `` well what do you bloody well expect to happen '' ?
ltlee1 3 Feb 2005 10:30:01 -0800 Re : when be a election not a election ?
you be talk about physically restricted to vote at election day .
however , it be not the Sunni cleric ' complaint .
rather , they state reason be relate to the reality that Iraq be currently under occupation .
do the presence of foreign troops make they less free ?
be they consult on set the date of election and how to distribute seat from the vote gain ?
in addition , they be restricted from move freely in they own country and/or they own city , would that not restricted they election related activity ?
well , I raise the question because the situation be novel .
America invasion , occupation Iraqis be unprovoked .
urillan 3 Feb 2005 15:32:17 -0800 Re : when be a election not a election ?
they state reason for not vote be because the country be under occupation .
they face , however , no pressure from the rest of the country , nor from the `` occupy '' force to stay away from the vote .
the Sunni 's now claim that the vote be not legitimate because they do not vote .
it be not they right to decide the legitimacy of the vote .
the Sunni 's have all the power about a year ago .
then they , the minority , be topple , and they use they power to intimidate and threaten shi'ite through the entire period .
who do you think the insurgent be kill -- shi'ite .
if anyone have a right to call the election `` illegitimate '' it would be the shi'ite .
they be invite to participate in each such decision .
they be not restrict from move within they own country .
the Shi'ites have no problem turn out in large group .
the situation be hardly novel .
it happen in Japan from 1945 through 1947 .
NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon hmoobhlubhmoob 10 Feb 2005 08:41:15 -0800 Re : NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon its all politics - north korea get j and a in its hand .
the usa get a pair of ks .
the flop on the table be Q , A , 10 , ... .
the turn might be a Jack for the USA the river might be a ace for North Korea .
it be you world not mine .
beautiful .
.
condolezza rice get what she be be cookin about .
bush get what he be ask for .
karl rove get what he wish .
the democrate be a bunch of coward .
and the hmong well i dont know .
all4one 10 Feb 2005 09:07:55 -0800 Re : NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon ... and the hmong sit and watch from the sideline while KIM II and BUSH jr. kill each other ... now wouldn ; t that be a scene to view ?
LOL NeoHmong 10 Feb 2005 09:13:51 -0800 Re : NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon Dai , good analysis !
I guess the Hmong get NOTHING .
NeoHmong 10 Feb 2005 09:16:37 -0800 Re : NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon Jim , to I it do not matter , because the Hmong could not level themselves evenly .
zhen 10 Feb 2005 10:58:36 -0800 Re : NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon Jim , the Hmong will not be sit and watch from the sideline .
America have position its piece on the chess board of global domination very carefully .
here be the option : 1 .
the US will use Hmong American sentiment against lpdr as the start point for a regime change in Laos .
however , Laos be not the goal ; checkmate be the fall of China , and economic control of China .
the US will support one or two Hmong individual to speak out against lpdr human rights violation and Chao Fa resistance fighter .
with a precedant set in Iraq for preemptive attack , Laos will be take overnight and become a source of invaluable logistics for U.S. military attack on China .
2 .
the US 's policy of hand out NTR will have the desire effect of reel in alliance from the surrounding country of China .
Laos already have NTR .
we shall wait and see if chinese fat or american fat taste better to LPDR .
if lpdr play ball with Uncle Sam , then there will be no bloodshed in Laos .
when the Americans get into Laos , the artificial cooperation will be sufficient for some strategic political change .
some Hmong Americans may be reintroduce to Laos .
some Hmong in Laos , namely , Chao Fa , will be a good source of intelligence on Lao-China border activity .
this will be Chao Fa 's chance to replace they diet of tree root with rice and fish .
again , America have lpdr under its control , and America can launch airstrike and ground unit from Laos .
3 .
regardless of what happen , the U.S. have a direct ethnic connection to China by way of Hmong , which will secure CIA-insurgency operation .
unlike the current situation in the Middle-East , where the number of arabic-speaking CIA agent be few , there will be plenty of hmong/chinese-speaking CIA agent for disposal and use in the loom sino-us war .
perhaps by route of Thailand , if lpdr do not cooperate , the US will incite insurrection in the southern province of China .
these province have a lot of Hmong people , and have be know to be the fiercest opposition to chinese rule -lrb- aka remember the Miao Rebellions ? -rrb-
.
this will be the Hmong 's god-given chance to fight for they own country .
let 's see if they -lrb- and we -rrb- agree to a coaltion government like the Kurds in Iraq .
those be just 3 option .
they all involve Hmong people .
read between the line , the war will not be between the US and North Korea .
China be use North Korea to escalate sino-us relation and test Uncle Sam 's temper .
I sure hope I be not sit and watch when this all go down .
this be the perfect opportunity .
as Hmong people say , `` Water run strongly , engine sound good . ''
born2behmong 10 Feb 2005 12:01:06 -0800 Re : NORTH KOREA say it have nuclear weapon Zhen , i think that you be a expert of fix thing ... LOL !
now , you be expert of preemptive strike ... LOL !
nuke be a key element to have a vote in this current day .
it will make more stable and balance of the world that we live in because no one can deter the other .
and , no country will have absolute power and authority ... cuz the deter of Nuked ... to wide out world wide ... ww3 with nuke , could dry and free some new dry sand land for Hmong man as Zhen 's wishful dream ... hahhahah !
born2behmong
Enron & India Patrick Powers 4 Nov 2004 20:48:36 -0800 Enron & India in India , Bechtel along with General Electric be the new owner of the notorious and currently defunct Enron power project .
the Enron contract , which legally bind the government of the state of Maharashtra to pay Enron a sum of 30 billion dollar , be the largest contract ever sign in India .
Enron be not shy to boast about the million of dollar it have spend to `` educate '' indian politician and bureaucrat .
the Enron contract in Maharashtra , which be India 's first ` fast-track ' private power project , have come to be know as the most massive fraud in the country 's history .
-lrb- Enron be another of the Republican Party 's major campaign contributor -rrb- .
the electricity that Enron produce be so exorbitant that the government decide it be cheaper not to buy electricity and pay Enron the mandatory fixed charge specify in the contract .
this mean that the government of one of the poorest country in the world be pay Enron 220 million US dollar a year not to produce electricity !
now that Enron have cease to exist , Bechtel and GE be sue the indian government for 5.6 billion US dollar .
this be not even a minute fraction of the sum of money that they -lrb- or Enron -rrb- actually invest in the project .
once more , it be a projection of profit they would have make have the project materialize .
zztop8970 fri , 05 Nov 2004 15:36:53 GMT Re : Enron & India for a slightly different perspective : `` Maharashtra official say the cost of power supply by Enron be nearly double the tariff charge by indian power producer , and use it as a excuse to stop pay state debt to the plant . ''
`` Enron have sign a power purchase agreement with power utility mseb eight year ago , under which a $ 3bn 2,182 megawatt power plant be to be commission .
but the project run into trouble nearly two year ago with the indian authority begin to delay payment say Enron 's power tariff be too high ... Though Enron official refuse to talk about the price they would be willing to sell they stake at , analyst say the US company be demand about one billion dollar for its investment in India .
so far it have only get offer of about half that amount from indian company and financial institution , but Enron be unwilling to sell its stake at a price lower than the cost .
in case no satisfactory offer come from the indian side , Enron will have little option but to go for international arbitration as they investment in the country be guarantee by the indian government .
but arbitration proceedings can be a long and messy affair .
analyst say both India and Enron have little to gain from a protracted legal battle .
the best way out could be a compromise by which Enron get less than what it be demand and more than what the Indians be presently offer .
IOW : No fraud , just a basic business dispute , in which the party renege on its obligation be the gov ' t of Maharashtra .
the Maharashtra official be either incompetent fool , or worse - malicious fraudster who con a international comapny into build a state-of-the-art power plant for they at a cost of billion of dollar , and then refuse payment , know the company have no legal recourse except lengthy international arbitration , and will likely sell the plant to they for a fraction of its true value .
M. Ranjit Mathews 5 Nov 2004 13:51:59 -0800 Re : Enron & India frisbieinst...@yahoo.com -lrb- Patrick Powers -rrb- write ... no ; million of dollar to bribe Indians to sell out India .
have anyone publish the name of these Indians ?
Bechtel Corporation?s take control of the water system of Cochabamba , Bolivia 's third-largest city in 2000 under a privatization program dictate by the IMF as a stipulation for loan payment to the bankrupt nation .
within week after take charge of a public company that have even manage to turn a slight profit , without make any improvement whatsoever in the water system , Bechtel double and triple water rate , charge the poor of the city $ 15 or more a month just to keep they water run ... in a city where family live on less than $ 60 per month .
the poor protest and be subdue by President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada?s security force .
eventually , after prolonged violent opposition de Lozada?s plan to sell Bolivia 's natural gas export at ?
give-away price ?
through multinational middleman , de lozada resign and flee the country on October 17 , 2003 .
the public subsequently retake control of Cochabamba 's water system .
Bechtel sue Bolivia for loss of potential profit like it be sue India now - that be , the profit it could have make by continue to gouge the poor without investment in capital infrastructure .
the detail of the case will not be reveal to the public : SECRETIVE world BANK TRIBUNAL ban PUBLIC and MEDIA PARTICIPATION in BECHTEL LAWSUIT over ACCESS to WATER : Washington , dc - the Bechtel Corporation be hand a powerful victory last week , when a secretive trade court announce that it would not allow the public or media to participate in or even witness proceedings in which Bechtel be sue the people of Bolivia .
Iraq election at this point rhooker...@hotmail.com 11 Feb 2005 01:45:13 -0800 Iraq election at this point this be get strange .
I actually can not recall it ever take 2 week to `` count '' these many ballot , generally election be call within 24 hour .
in this case counting be take 2 week .
what be strange be everyone know who win , Sistani win .
he party , the major winner , could not field canidate until just before the election , but it be he face on all the poster and he part wipp up the heavily funded US support government .
so we have the voice of the people of Iraq , even if the Sunni 's have vote Sistani would still be the majority leader .
but he be not run .
so the US have enter in to the classic shia quicksand of islamic republic , which have cause it such problem in Iran .
Sistani will run Iraq , or the election will be ignore .
the problem with Sistani run Iraq be he refuse to talk to the Ameircans , and as the real power broker what ever figure head take the PM and other post will speak with as little authority as they counter part in Iran .
the US be now fight a war for a nation who government they have no direct tie with .
the other option , and what the US seem to be try , be to somehow fudge the election so Sistani do not win , that raise doubt about the outcome , claim fraud , do anything so that the election cause to result .
give the american attention span be about 10 minut the creation of a dictatorship of US puppet against the election would be ignore in the US .
this would actually be not only in the US best interest , but might be militarily necessary .
I can not imagine how the US occupation could operate in a situation where Sistani have the ultimate power .
in the long run I can not see how Iraq can avoid civil war , since its have it so many time in the past .
civil war lead to the victory of one group be the norm in Iraq , and be the casue of most mass grave in the 1980s and 1990s .
likely only sanction have kill more .
Sistani have the popular support and the claim of the election which the Ameircans bungle baddly and allow he to take over .
the Sunni 's have the weapon , the skill , and the support .
the US occupation be become more difficult by the day and Bush have show he fail to understand the situation .
hell when the worst possible event in the election be happen , Sistani be flood the poll with he supporter Bush be crow .
sadly Bush 's concern be short-term politics in the South of Ameirca , and they have already decide they do not have to pay attention to Iraq .
with more and mmore sunnus support the insurgent Iran , the big winner in all of this , will feel the need to back Sistani in the south .
so if the US leave its possible we could see Iraq carve up between the group .
as for a civil war , its already start .
old hoodoo Fri , 11 Feb 2005 10:30:44 -0600 Re : Iraq election at this point it be pretty bizarre , consider how long they have to organize election .
it may be that they want the public to get adjust to the fact that the shia 's be take over before announce official result .
the US be not go to change the result .
a shia government will allow we a exit strategy .
all we have win in iraq be maybe a shaky neutrality .
its not like Germany or Japan where they be so terrify of the Soviets post war that they be happy to see the US stick around .
I myself would have be happier with a mushariff military dictatorship or junta take over .
that be the only way to keep religion out of run the government .
in my opinion , all we have to the average iraqi citizen be bring a new type of domination .
many small business will have to close down -lrb- alcohol relate -rrb- woman will have to dress head to toe again , etc. .
there be only one ray of hope , that Sistani will prove a very strong leader and actually care about the moderate muslim in he country and protect they .
its a wait and see game as for the Sunnis , they be probably go to have to be crush .
thousand die to protect ISRAEL !
Deborah Sharavi 31 Jan 2005 18:12:23 -0800 Re : thousand die to protect ISRAEL !
Saddam pose a threat to Saudia , Kuwait , and the british oil protectorate along the Gulf - that be why we invade , stupid .
Deborah takaou...@juno.com 31 Jan 2005 19:00:01 -0800 Re : thousand die to protect ISRAEL !
the truth seem to I that the israeli government get panic when Saddam announce that he would reward the family of palestinian suicide bomber with some 10 thousand dollar .
Tilly Tue , 1 Feb 2005 16:13:33 +1300 Re : thousand die to protect ISRAEL !
rofl .
how old be you ?
too young to remember the scud Saddam 's iraqi republican guard lob into Israel in 1991 , or 1982 when the Israelis level the iraqi nuclear weapon facility ?
-- Tilly striking1583REM...@yahoo.co.nz Deborah Sharavi 1 Feb 2005 16:08:57 -0800 Re : thousand die to protect ISRAEL !
do not even bother ask if this guy remember the Iraq/Iran war of 1980-1988 , which when Saddam launch a land / air invasion of Iran .
anyone remember Khomeini 's declaration in 1982 that Iran would not stop fight until they overthrow Saddam ?
how about Saddam 's use of chemical weapon ?
recall that we -lrb- and the brit -rrb- involve ourselves in that war only in 1987 , after attack on Kuwaiti oil tanker .
how many Iraqis and Iranians be kill in that war ?
one million ?
two million ?
Saddam be so unimpressed by iraqi casualty , he invade Kuwait barely two year after the un-imposed ceasefire .
this clown , however , think `` the truth '' be that it be Israel who get panic .
yeah , right .
Deborah
U.S. provoke Japan ?
** bg ** thu , 27 Jan 2005 17:03:23 +0000 -lrb- utc -rrb- U.S. provoke Japan ?
I hear discussion along the line that the United States be * want * to go to war with Japan , and have be try to bring that about for year .
any recognize book that develop this thesis ; be there a definitive work ?
- bg - -- lesliemills2002@netscape .
net fri , 28 Jan 2005 17:09:12 +0000 -lrb- UTC -rrb- Re : U.S. provoke Japan ?
I have read quite a few more rational work describe how the US be do its best to avoid , or at the very least postpone , a war against Japan , mainly because FDR be try to provoke Hitler to war and do not need a distraction on another distant front .
work ?
-lrb- stuff delete -rrb- the thesis have be expound by several conspiracy theorist , mainly the one who expound that FDR know Pearl Harbor be about to be attack , and let it happen .
one of they `` proof '' be that the US carrier be out of port during the attack , and `` everybody know '' carrier be the capital ship of the future .
however , the two carrier operate out of Pearl at the moment be send West with light escort , on possibly intersect route with the IJN Kido Butai , which have far more carrier and a far heavier escort .
even stranger , the USS Enterprise be schedule to be at Pearl by Dec 6th , but get delay by a storm .
consequently , for the ph conspiracy theorist to believe that FDR keep the carrier out of harm 's way , we not only have to grant FDR the full knowledge of Kido Butai 's route of approach would not result in either USN carrier fleet get catch in a hopeless battle , but that FDR could psychically manipulate the weather to prevent Halsey from sail into Pearl and thus be ambush .
to make a very long story short , it be foolish to assume that the US want to go to war against Japan prior to 1941 , consider the weight of evidence argue against a US desire for war , and the overwhelming lack of evidence -lrb- not to mention rational thought -rrb- argue for a US desire for war .
-- mtfes...@netmapsonscape.net fri , 28 Jan 2005 17:08:52 +0000 -lrb- UTC -rrb- Re : U.S. provoke Japan ?
here 's something I write as part of a larger article , some while ago : be not Japan just defend herself when she attack the US ?
this line of reasoning seem to derive from argument that Japan be be `` drive into a corner '' by sanction , and have no choice but to attack the US .
Meiji Japan be drive to emulate what it think the West be do in every facet of society .
they have observe , for example , that the West be able to carve up China into `` sphere of influence '' , and be able to do from great distance , while they , the Japanese , have have limit success in they previous attempt to dominate the korean peninsula , much less China .
as part of the catch-up effort , she whole-heartedly enter into the Imperialist game in Asia , be treat as a equal -lrb- relative to she power -rrb- by the other power .
however , after World War I , Japan fail to recognize a fundamental shift in the attitude of she former Imperial partner ; they begin a long , slow process of disengage themselves from they former Imperial area , from they colony , in addition to outright stop all expansion .
Japan choose to read this as a sign that the West have lose its power and resolve , and that Japan be the rightful heir to Imperial mantle in Asia .
with the death of many of the idealistic leader who have lead Japan 's rise to international prominence , and the refusal of the US to intervene in asian affair , in addition to the Bolshevik revolution and the strip of possession from Germany , Britain find herself alone in deal with a increasingly aggressive Japan in the area .
have a keen grasp of the obvious , she begin a policy of accede to japanese hegemony in the area .
Japan continue a policy of acquire territory for some grand , illusive scheme of a `` Greater Asia '' , subordinate and grateful to Japan .
the reality of this be that only a single possession , Manchuria , be profitable to the Japanese , and the rest of the Empire turn out to be a drain .
this drain be greatly accelerate by Japan 's invasion of China proper in 1936 .
it be a war that Japan assume would be end in `` 3 to 6 month '' ; at the time of Pearl Harbor , it have be go on for 5 year , at the cost of over half a million japanese life .
the war put a tremendous strain on Japan -lrb- and be in fact oppose by more radically nationalistic element , as take away from the development of Japan 's other possession , particularly in the area of scrap metal and fuel . -rrb-
domestic consumption fall , consumer goods become scarce , and the use of materiale for war purpose eat into Japan 's domestic industry .
this cut further into she foreign reserve , exacerbate the economic impact of the war .
the war effort take on a life of its own , however , and common sense be subordinate to it .
Japan expand into area of China and Indochina which have no strategic value to she , but put she in a position to threaten british and dutch possession in the area ; possession that both those allied nation need in order to continue they fight against Hitler .
at this point , the US stop ignore the japanese threat , and impose a series of escalate sanction on Japan , cut off she scrap metal , limitting and then cut off she oil -lrb- Japan import most of both from the US . -rrb-
while japanese official realize that they have enough of each resource for Japan to do well if the war in CHINA stop , they be powerless over the military they be suppose to control .
a abortive attack on soviet position in Mongolia have place Japan 's focus firmly south , towards the possession of the US ' future ally .
for no reason anyone could articulate , Japan feel she have to continue the war in China .
to continue the war in China , she have to have resource of oil and metal .
to have these resource , she must seize they , if other refuse to sell they .
in order to seize they , she feel she have to attack and destroy the naval power of the US .
thus , for a `` 3 to 6 month '' operation in China in 1937 , Japan would embark on a war that would strip she of all the possession and industry she have acquire in 70 year .
she must seize they , if other refuse to sell they .
in order to seize they , she feel she have to attack and destroy the naval power of the US .
thus , for a `` 3 to 6 month '' operation in China in 1937 , Japan would embark on a war that would strip she of all the possession and industry she have acquire in 70 year .
Mike --
the 1860 Presidential Election Machiavegli 29 Jan 2005 22:04:38 GMT the 1860 Presidential Election in 1860 there be a four-way race between the Republican Party with Abraham Lincold , the Democratic Party with Stephen Douglas , the Southern Democratic Party with John Breckenridge , and the Constitutional Union Party with John Bell .
Lincoln win a plurality with about 40 % of the vote .
WI it be only a two-way race between Lincoln and Douglas ?
I believe Douglas would have win .
this would have delay secession and the civil war .
David Tenner sit , 29 Jan 2005 17:21:13 -0600 Re : the 1860 Presidential Election machiave...@aol.com -lrb- Machiavegli -rrb- write in `` one feature of the result must not be omit .
many careless observer feel at the time that the success of Lincoln be due entirely to the fact of there have be three oppose candidate in the field ; or , in other word , to the dissension in the democratic party , which divide its vote between Breckinridge and Douglas .
what merely moral strength the democratic party would have gain have it remain united , it be impossible to estimate .
such a supposition can only be base on the absence of the extreme Southern doctrine concern slavery .
give the presence of those doctrine in the canvass , no hypothesis can furnish a result different from that which occur .
in the contest upon the question as they exist , the victory of Lincoln be certain .
if all the vote give to all the oppose candidate have be concentrate and cast for a ` fusion ticket , ' as be wholly or partly do in five state , the result would have be change nowhere except in New Jersey , California , and Oregon ; Lincoln would still have receive but 11 fewer , or 169 electoral vote -- majority of 35 in the entire electoral college . ''
Abraham Lincoln , a history , volume 2 by John George Nicolay and John Hay see for a confirmation of the electoral arithmetic : the state where Lincoln get a abolute majority of the popular vote -lrb- i.e. , all the free state except Oregon , California , and New Jersey -rrb- be sufficient to bring he a majority in the Electoral College .
the reason that Lincoln could get a electoral majority with only forty percent of the popular vote be not that he opposition be divide but that he have far fewer `` waste '' vote than he opponent -- in ten southern state he get no popular vote at all .
it can of course be argue that the candidate of a unite anti-lincoln opposition might have do better than all the OTL anti-lincoln candidate combine , because the mere fact of the divide nature of Lincoln 's opposition might have discourage anti-lincoln man and lead to fewer of they vote than would otherwise be the case .
but give that turnout be quite high in 1860 , I doubt this .
one thing seem reasonably clear to I : if there be to be a unite anti- Lincoln opposition , Douglas could not lead it .
he be hate too much in the South for he opposition to the admission of Kansas as a state under the pro-slavery Lecompton Constitution and for he interpretation of Dred Scott as still allow territory to exclude slavery through unfriendly local legislation .
-lrb- see for Douglas 's defense of he position . -rrb-
he and Breckinridge and Bell would have to withdraw in favor of a compromise candidate -- former governor Horatio Seymour of New York be one proposal .
but I doubt that Seymour would have be able to do better than all the combined otl anti-lincoln candidate in such close state as Illinois and Indiana and he own state of New York be not really close enough for I to believe he could have take that state from the Lincoln column .
-- David Tenner dten...@ameritech.net Joseph t major Sun , 30 Jan 2005 11:13:09 -0500 Re : the 1860 Presidential Election whether it be Lincoln vs. Douglas or Lincoln vs. fusion candidate , would not a candidate have win the Electoral College vote with only 40 % of the popular vote have provoke protest anyhow ?
Joseph t major
Board Member Compensation Lynn Fri , 18 Feb 2005 19:02:43 -0500 Board Member Compensation hello all , what be the recommend policy on compensate board member for attend meeting , when they have no vacation time leave at work , and be attend the board meeting on they own time , without pay .
we do not want to lose the contribution of this board member , but this have become a financial issue .
thanks .
Nathan Garber Sat , 19 Feb 2005 11:15:48 -0500 Re : Board Member Compensation Lynn if you organization be a charity , it be generally consider to be inappropriate , and in some jurisdiction , it be illegal to compensate board member for they service .
you should check out the law in you state and/or country .
it be reasonable , however , to reimburse board member for legitimate and necessary expense incur in order to serve on the board .
I wonder if you could make a case for pay someone to replace the board member so the board member can attend meeting .
I be not a lawyer , but it seem to I to be similar to reimburse a board member for a babysitter , which no one question .
another possibility be to change the meeting time .
Nathan lnma Sat , 19 Feb 2005 11:34:54 -0500 Re : Board Member Compensation we be incorporate in Maryland .
there be just 5 of we on the board -lrb- we be a charity 501 -lrb- c -rrb- -lrb- 3 -rrb- , although we all live in different state from coast to coast .
it be very difficult to find time for all of we to get together .
would I need to check the Maryland law or the law in the state in which this board member life ?
thanks .
David Ross Sat , 19 Feb 2005 11:29:45 -0800 Re : Board Member Compensation in IRS publication 557 , the sample draft article of incorporation indicate that no compensation may be pay to director .
in fairness , reimbursement of out-of-pocket expense on behalf of the organization -- include travel and lodging to attend board meeting -- be allow .
however , publication 557 do not explicitly prohibit compensation to director .
as far as state law go , you must follow the law for the state -lrb- 1 -rrb- in which the organization be incorporate and -lrb- 2 -rrb- in which the organization operate .
for a organization that be incorporate in Maryland and have its headquarters in Maryland , the law of Maryland apply without regard to the state in which the director live .
remember , a corporation be legally a `` person '' , distinct from the corporeal person who govern , manage , and operate the corporation .
thus , the law apply to the corporate person be the law of the state where that person `` life '' .
-- David E. Ross -lrb- url :-rrb- I use Mozilla as my web browser because I want a browser that comply with web standard .
see -lrb- url :-rrb- .
Freddie Newsgroup Sun , 20 Feb 2005 08:14:39 GMT Re : Board Member Compensation it be very legal , and a acceptable policy or practice in Canada to pay a honorarium or stipent for people on board that be active .
many do this , as they know it be a investment for the time and talent they need .
they also know , as do the recipient , the payment be but a percentage of the true worth of the time and effort , but do show respect for what they be recieve .
lnma mon , 21 Feb 2005 17:40:01 -0500 Re : Board Member Compensation be there anyone who know of a precedent for this be do for a non-profit in the U.S. ?
thanks !
anonym ... Mon , 21 Feb 2005 22:59:47 GMT Re : Board Member Compensation Yes .
some Head Start agency , Community Health Centers , and similar nonprofit organization serve low-income people have a requirement for `` consumer '' representation on they board .
transportation cost reimbursement , child care accommodation , provision of meal , etc. , can be do either in-kind or in cash .
anonym ... Mon , 21 Feb 2005 23:03:58 GMT Re : Board Member Compensation Michael L. Wyland Sumption & Wyland 818 South Hawthorne Avenue Sioux Falls , sd 57104-4537 -lrb-605-rrb-336-0244 -lrb-605-rrb-336-0275 -lrb- FAX -rrb- -lrb- 888 -rrb- 4-sumption -lrb- toll-free -rrb- mich...@sumptionandwyland.com -- free e-newsletter sign-up -- new article : `` for ceo -- six characteristic of good ceo/board Relationships '' Nathan Garber Tue , 22 Feb 2005 07:48:14 -0500 Re : Board Member Compensation actually , it would not be advisable to accept Freddy 's comment at face value .
it be not acceptable policy and not legal to pay a honorarium or stipend to director of charity .
I check with a lawyer familiar with canadian charity law , who explain that it be not permit to remunerate board member of charity for they service as board member .
the prohibition do not apply to director of nonprofit organization that be not charity .
in the USA , the rule vary from state to state .
some state permit board member of charity to be compensate , but it be generally not do .
donor , funder , and the general public share the view that director of charity should act gratuitiously .
it be permit everywhere , however , to reimburse director for necessary expense incur in order to serve .
if you organization be a charity , you need to check you state law and act very carefully if you be consider pay board member .
Nathan Freddie Newsgroup Tue , 22 Feb 2005 20:47:33 GMT Re : Board Member Compensation be someone that work and live in Canada , and in the non-profit industry , it be do , and it be very legal .
take a look at any of the large student union , they all pay they elect board member a honorarium , as do many of the large foundation .
it be legal , and it be do .
Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones Michael Ejercito 17 Feb 2005 09:39:05 -0800 Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones I wonder why the Army and Marines do not deploy infantry combat drone .
Michael BlackWater Thu , 17 Feb 2005 19:03:11 GMT Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones on 17 Feb 2005 09:39:05 -0800 , `` Michael Ejercito '' that would be a long drive to any nuclear facility .
someone 's bind to notice .
Hmmm ... now if the drone aircraft could lift a drone soldier and parachute ... .
oh well , I do not think there be really much we can do about iranian nuke .
Learning from other mistake they have widely disperse they facility , even put some in dense urban area .
we will just have to lay down the law relative to what happen if iranian uranium be find in a terrorist nuke .
Defendario Thu , 17 Feb 2005 22:56:59 -0500 Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones K00K00 !!
k00k00 !!
k00k00 !!
-lrb- insanity snip -rrb- yep .
the Persians be not so dumb , be they ?
;--RRB- but just how exactly would we ever be able to learn where fission material come from forensically ?
sound like a fantasy ... as dangerous as this world be get , we better think about be a better neighbor .
jmho .
;d BlackWater Sat , 19 Feb 2005 06:34:31 GMT Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones Um ... you be not very technical , be you ?
every reactor produce not only the fissionable product you want for bomb but also certain contaminate with a unique percentage of isotope .
it be a `` fingerprint '' that would be really hard to fake .
sure ... but there be limit ... .
Gogarty Sat , 19 Feb 2005 07:49:05 -0500 Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones in article -lrb- wd4wqifziix9qjjbx1ynvx2kx ... @ 4ax .
com -rrb- , b...@barrk.net say ... do not do you any good if you do not have a fingerprint on file to which to compare the unknown one .
Defendario Sat , 19 Feb 2005 16:38:22 -0500 Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones and do it work after the bomb have blow ?
please enlighten we .
;d BlackWater Mon , 21 Feb 2005 12:08:18 GMT Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones on Sat , 19 Feb 2005 16:38:22 -0500 , Defendario Yes , it work even after the bomb have explode .
BlackWater Mon , 21 Feb 2005 12:07:39 GMT Re : Iran to continue policy of Shooting-Down US Spy Drones on Sat , 19 Feb 2005 07:49:05 -0500 , Gogarty -lrb- Goga...@Clongowes.edu -rrb- ah ... but we do !
we get it in two way .
first from iaec inspector and secondly , in case some fakery be go on , from we low-flying drone that buzz - and ` sniff ' - they facility .
Holocaust Day Thomas Bauer Thu , 27 Jan 2005 08:11:09 GMT Holocaust Day yet again I notice that the media see gay as ` invisible ' when it come to Holocaust Day .
this morning , when talk about the horror of Auswitch on the BBC Breakfast programme , they refer to the slaughter of thousand of Jews and other .
surely gay and gypsy warrant more than to be refer to as ` other ' .
you would not know anything about the slaughter of gay if you only listen to the BBC .
lyn David Thomas Thu , 27 Jan 2005 08:21:22 GMT Re : Holocaust Day on Thu , 27 Jan 2005 08:11:09 gmt I have just -lrb- in the last 1/2 hour -rrb- hear Radio Wales refer to the million of Jews and other minorite include gypsy and homosexual who die in the concentration camp .
Thomas Bauer Thu , 27 Jan 2005 10:17:33 GMT Re : Holocaust Day good Thomas Bauer Peter Corlett Thu , 27 Jan 2005 11:39:03 GMT Re : Holocaust Day the ` other ' be name on radio 4 's today .
seem that those who listen to the BBC know , but those who watch it do not :p -- this woman do not fly to extreme ; she live there .
- Quentin Crisp Peter Ould Thu , 27 Jan 2005 13:11:44 GMT Re : Holocaust Day hello Thomas , as mention in `` The Final solution '' thread , the number of man kill for be homosexual be at the most 10-15 ,000 .
now that be significant , but compare to the genocide of Jews and Zigeuner it be not as significant -lrb- though of course to the family and love one of those who die every single one be significant -rrb- .
not try to deny it happen , just try to see some perspective .
I for one say Kaddish this morning and will do so again at dusk .
Peter O Vicky Thu , 27 Jan 2005 21:06:15 GMT Re : Holocaust Day I be watch the BBC news this morning and they interview the man who be go to be in charge of Holocaust Day , certainly in the future .
he very specifically mention gay , along with black and roma , and say that he be go to try and link future day to the danger of current prejudice and oppression .
John L Fri , 28 Jan 2005 01:23:42 GMT Re : Holocaust Day this be a bit like rating Stalin and Hitler for badness purely on the grounds of the number of death they be responsible for .
it be `` significant '' if any group of people be identify for liquidation by the government of the country in which they live , surely ?
if there be not as many identifiable individual from a particular group in the general population , then by you significance = headcount yardstick some group be never ever go to get rate as `` significant '' .
in some way , it be amazing that the Nazis be able to identify even * two * thousand homosexual in the Thirties .
by a bitter irony , without the burgeon gay liberation movement in Germany -lrb- Magnus Hirschfeld et al -rrb- the issue may not even have arise .
John L Thomas Bauer Fri , 28 Jan 2005 11:37:23 GMT Re : Holocaust Day that be good .
I do get a email back from the BBC say that they understand what I be say and would try to be more inclusive .
Thomas Bauer Peter Ould Fri , 28 Jan 2005 12:14:56 GMT Re : Holocaust Day hello John , I be simply try to get some perspective .
the Holocaust of the Jews and Zigeuner be motivate by racial prejudice .
the murder of -lrb- at the most -rrb- 10k homosexual be not .
most homosexual arrest during the nazi era be imprison in normal jail .
if you be homosexually orient but do nothing with it the law in 30s Germany could not touch you .
the Jews and Zigeuner on the other hand be kill simply for they ontological state .
once again , I be not diminish the horror of any individual murder , just try to get it into perspective .
Peter O Robert Marshall Fri , 28 Jan 2005 14:13:10 GMT Re : Holocaust Day Hang on a moment up there you say it be shrink , I think you agenda be show !
and that previous quote say a rather important qualification .
I think the chance of they be only 10000 who be homosexual amongst the how ever million be kill in the camp be rather small .
Records appear to show that 50000 _ man _ be convict of homosexuality during the nazi rule , find out how many be send to a camp and kill there be more difficult especially as some who be send to normal jail be transfer to camp at the end of they sentence , but 10-15k seem reasonable Robert
Scott 2004-11-01T11:44:00 Again I apologize for the lack of update over the past few day and will use this space to recap a weekend that be both good and bad .
the good : on Friday a small group of friend and I attend a most-righteous Sister Hazel concert at Floyd 's Music Store for the third straight , and for the third straight year I be blow away by one of my favorite live band .
Sister Hazel have a way of become intimate with the fan by brine they into the show .
it be something you can always expect from these guy , unlike so many other performer , and be why I never miss a show when they be in town .
on Saturday we host what be for the most part a largely successful Halloween party -- save for the fake blood stain on the carpet and bathroom wall , a couple beer spill , unnecessary fight and the expect trashing of the kitchen and living room area .
naturally , I dress up as Hugh Hefner and take the role of make sure everyone be have a good time .
I have yet to hear any complaint from any of the guest .
the Bad : on Saturday the Seminoles be best by unranked Maryland ; effectively end we chance at a national title this year .
in addition , the quarterback controversy have once again debouch as Chris Rix almost take we to victory with he deep threat .
alas , too little too late be the case thanks to the inept Wyatt Sexton who have be we starter since replace Rix earlier in the season .
fortunately the agony of defeat be blanket somewhat by we Halloween party and I will not have to worry about Seminole Football until next Saturday .
on Sunday we see `` see '' -lrb- review come -rrb- and as expect I be less than satisfied .
it be neither better nor worse than last week 's `` the Grudge '' but the trailer beforehand dictate that the end of this year and the beginning of 2005 will bring we a large quantity of horror movie .
if I enjoy one out of five consider the genre I can say it be worth it .
Scott 2004-11-01T18:06:00 I wish I could have be at a pub , or wherever these people convene , to see the reaction from all the Britons who read the Telegraph this morning -lrb- emphasis add -rrb- : Britain 's gun law be aim at the wrong target , curb and criminalise legal ownership while fail to tackle huge rise in shooting offence over the past few year , accord to a international firearm legislation expert .
Prof Gary Mauser say that Britain be make the same mistake as Canada and Australia in focus on legal owner - a section of the law-abiding community where gun crime , such as the Dunblane massacre , be aberration .
the Home Office and police chief should instead tackle the possession of gun in criminal hand , say Prof Mauser , a member of the independent Fraser Institute in Canada .
he have give evidence to select committee of the House of Commons and the canadian Senate and predict the escalation of gun crime on Britain 's street .
he warning come as gun crime incident be average about 29 a day in England and Wales , more than twice the level of when the labour government come to power in 1997 .
in the past two year , there have be case of schoolchildren and a baby , kill or injure by gun .
`` I believe that factor of political correctness be at work , '' he say .
`` police crackdown , Home Office initiative and over-regulation of legally hold weapon create froth and they may even fool the police themselves into believe they be do something about gun crime . ''
Prof Mauser add : `` the sad truth be that while the police officer be inspect farmer ' gun cabinet to see if they comply with regulation somewhere in the UK , someone , who have not fill in a firearm certificate form , will be smuggling a gun into the country or sell one to a inner city youth . ''
record gun crime rise by three per cent to 10,590 incident in the year to June .
two-third of gun crime take place in London , Birmingham and Manchester .
it do not matter to these people that crime have skyrocket since the irrational ban on private gun possession go into effect in Great Britain .
just as long as it be there , they feel safe .
Scott 2004-11-16T13:47:00 from Reuters : U.S. Marines rally round a comrade under investigation for kill a wound iraqi during the offensive in Falluja , say he be probably under combat stress in unpredictable , hair-trigger circumstance .
Marines interview on Tuesday say they do not see the shooting as a scandal , rather the act of a comrade who face intense pressure during the effort to quell the insurgency in the city .
`` I can see why he would do it .
he be probably run around be shoot at for day on end in Falluja .
there should be a investigation but they should look into the circumstance , '' say Lance corporal Christopher Hanson .
`` I would have shoot the insurgent too .
two shot to the head , '' say Sergeant Nicholas Graham , 24 , of Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania .
`` you can not trust these people .
he should not be investigate .
he do nothing wrong . ''
of course the anti-american world press be jump all over this story , casually omit the fact that just a day earlier the marine in question lose a fellow soldier who be attend to a dead insurgent that be booby-trapped with explosive .
add the tactic of booby-trap you own dead to the effective suicide bombing , and it be clear to say that the Geneva Convention be not on the mind of the insurgent .
for that I believe the Marines should handle dead and wounded insurgent by any means necessary to ensure they own safety and prevent a possible ambush .
I be no fan of this war either , but it irk I to no end reading and listen to civilian opinion on how soldier should conduct themselves in hostile war zone from they comfortable recliner .
to the world press and everyone else who despise the United States : you do not have to like we president or those operate this war , but get off the back of the 18 , 19 and 20 year-old throw into a situation you will never see or have to encounter .
I have get too many friend in Iraq right now I want to see come home alive and well , and I will support they at every opportunity .
Scott 2004-12-01T23:13:00 more than a few e-mail have come in wonder why I have not remark on the horrible hunting tragedy on Nov. 21 that leave six people dead , and why I have not update the ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN COUNTER .
I do not mean to wait this long and never intend to ignore the issue , but I have be extremely busy last week with Thanksgiving and everything that go along with it .
this be problem that need to be address .
but as for the assault weapon ban issue , the man accuse of the brutal killing , Chai Vang of St. Paul , Minn , use a russian-built Saiga 7.62 mm , sk semiautomatic rifle .
as this article point out , the sk be not include on the list of ban weapon as part of the 10-year ban on certain `` assault weapon '' sign by President Clinton .
the ban expire in September and at the time of this post , no one have be kill by any one of those weapon since the ban expire .
but let 's talk about this case , as I be sure discussion have start and many want stronger gun control because of this freak incident .
while the media use word like `` military style , '' `` assault '' and `` semiautomatic , '' the gun use in the slaying be not unlike a typical hunting rifle .
the sk be a medium-powered carbine equip with a 10-round magazine , just like the pistol I be display in the photo on the left hand side of this blog .
ban weapon have capacity of more than 10 round ; so like my small 9mm , the sk be not classify as a `` assault '' weapon .
so let 's not center we discussion around the gun , let 's talk about the person behind the trigger .
if convict of the killing , Vang face life in prison as Minnesota do not honor the death penalty .
I look forward to Vang 's conviction and I pray for the family of the victim .
what happen be indefensible and justice must be serve .
Scott 2004-12-03T19:59:00 here be a incredible story about a unsung hero until now .
from BBC News : A retire italian doctor have reveal for the first time how he invent a fictitious disease which fool the Nazis during World War II .
the trick of prescribe jew with a mysterious illness terrify the Nazis and save 45 Roman Jews .
Dr Vittorio Sacerdoti have tell he remarkable tale on the 60th anniversary of liberation of Rome .
just 28 year old at the time , he use courage and ingenuity to save 45 people from certain death .
as other Jews be be round up , Dr Sacerdoti admit anyone who could reach the hospital as patient - and diagnose they with a dangerous disease .
`` we would write on they medical form that the patient be suffer from K syndrome , '' he say .
`` we call it K after the german commander kesserling - the Nazis think it be cancer or tuberculosis , and they flee like rabbit . ''
K syndrome save he cousin , Luciana Sacerdoti , who be just 10 year old .
`` the day the Nazis come to the hospital , someone come to we room and say : ` you have to cough , you have to cough a lot because they be afraid of the cough , they do not want to catch a awful disease and they will not enter ' . ''
Scott 2004-12-08T21:33:00 Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld take part in a q&a with the troops today that be anything but cozy .
disgruntled soldier complain to Rumsfeld about long deployment and a lack of armored vehicle and other equipment .
from the Associated Press : `` you go to war with the Army you have , '' Rumsfeld reply , `` not the Army you might want or wish to have . ''
Spc. Thomas Wilson have ask the defense secretary , `` why do we soldier have to dig through local landfill for piece of scrap metal and compromise ballistic glass to up-armor we vehicle ? ''
shout of approval and applause arise from the estimate 2,300 soldier who have assemble to see Rumsfeld .
`` we do not have proper armored vehicle to carry with we north , '' Wilson , 31 , of Nashville , Tenn. , conclude after ask again .
Wilson , a airplane mechanic whose unit , the 278th regimental Combat Team of the Tennessee Army National Guard , be about to drive north into Iraq for a one-year tour of duty , put he finger on a problem that have bedevil the Pentagon for more than a year .
rarely , though , be it put so bluntly in a public forum .
Rumsfeld say the Army be spare no expense or effort to acquire as many Humvees and other vehicle with extra armor as it can .
what be more , he say , armor be not the savior some think it be .
`` you can have all the armor in the world on a tank and a tank can -lrb- still -rrb- be blow up , '' he say .
ca not say that be the most comforting answer .
Scott 2004-12-15T23:02:00 from the Associated Press : City resident will vote next year on a propose weapon ban that would deny handgun to everyone except law enforcement officer , member of the military and security guard .
if pass next November , resident would have 90 day to give up firearm they keep in they home or business .
the proposal be immediately dismiss as illegal by a gun owner group .
firearm would be allow only for police officer , security guard , member of the military , and anyone else `` actually employ and engage in protect and preserve property or life within the scope of he or she employment , '' accord to the measure .
gun owner of California , a sacramento-based lobbying group , quickly call the ban illegal .
Sam Paredes , the group 's executive director , say state law bar local government from usurp the state 's authority to regulate firearm .
`` the amazing thing be they be go to turn San Francisco into ground zero for every criminal who want to profit at they choose profession , '' Paredes say .
Washington , D.C. , be the only major american city that currently ban handgun possession by private citizen .
Andrew Arulanandam , director of public affair for the National Rifle Association , say San Francisco would be remiss to use that city as a model .
`` if gun control work , Washington , D.C. , would be the beacon .
however , it be the murder capital of the United States , '' he say .
if approve , the weapon ban would take effect in January 2006 .
quote of the day : `` Firearms would be allow only for police officer , security guard , member of the military , and anyone else actually employ and engage in protect and preserve property or life within the scope of he or she employment . ''
so preserve property or life within the scope of self-defense and protection of the home be not allow .
no thanks .
if the people vote for this measure it will be hard to sympathize with they when robbery and rape rate skyrocket , because burgular will know home be not guard , and rapist will know the only thing stop they from the victim they desire be they own inhibition .
Scott 2004-12-18T01:46:00 San Francisco be apparently bore with just be the gay capital of America and be try to muscle out Washington DC for the prestigious title of murder capital .
it be possible , now that San Francisco official have propose a law that mimic the infamous dc gun ban .
Columnist Michelle Malkin be one of the few columnists/bloggers who have pick up on the story .
as I say in a previous post it be all up to the voter .
Scott 2004-12-18T10:04:00 from the Associated Press : A baby girl who have be cut out of she mother 's womb be find after a frantic search , and authority arrest the woman they say strangle the mother and steal the child .
the baby be in good condition Saturday .
Lisa M. Montgomery , 36 , of Melvern , Kan. , be arrest later Friday and charge with kidnapping result in death .
Bobbie Jo Stinnett , 23 , be find Thursday in a pool of blood inside she small white home in Skidmore , a town in northwest Missouri .
Stinnett , who be eight month pregnant , have earlier be talk with she mother on the phone , and hang up say a woman she have chat with online have just arrive at she door , authority say .
U.S. Attorney Todd Graves say Montgomery contact Stinnett through a online message board , and authority zero in on she use computer forensic .
Montgomery be seek to buy a dog from Stinnett , who raise rat terrier , he say .
accord to the criminal complaint , Montgomery travel about 40 mile to Topeka , Kan. , on Thursday to go shopping .
she husband receive a call from she say she have go into labor and give birth .
the next day , authority say , Montgomery confess that she strangle Stinnett from behind , cut she open , remove the baby and cut she umbilical cord .
I do not understand how we can call this fetus-thing that be rip from a mother 's womb a `` child '' or `` girl '' in a society that sanction partial-birth abortion .
if you can not charge someone for kill a fetus via abortion during the eighth month , then surely you can not make a big deal about a woman who kidnap a fetus that survive the knifing .
on a less-sarcastic note , I pray for the family of the 23-year-old woman .
no one should have to die because some crazy nut want a child and decide to kill for it .
if there be any good news in this story , it be that Victoria Jo will live on and carry she mother 's memory .
question for the pro-choicer : be that it be not yet the ninth month , can we still charge the killer with kidnapping ?
Scott 2004-12-23T14:49:00 this be absolutely amazing news .
finally , the Democrats be finally realize that the american people support the rights of unborn child and may soon revamp they platform to accommodate the moral and value that at least half of this country possess .
of course , I be sure the Democrats would also like to start win election again .
from the Los Angeles Times : after long define itself as a undisputed defender of abortion rights , the Democratic Party be suddenly lock in a internal struggle over whether to redefine its position to appeal to a broader array of voter .
the fight be a central theme of the contest to head the democratic National , particularly between two lead candidate : former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean , who support abortion rights , and former Indiana Rep. Tim Roemer , a abortion foe who argue that the party can not rebind from its loss in the November election unless it show more tolerance on one of society 's most emotional conflict .
no Democrat with any respect for he unraveling party would ever mention Howard Dean 's name again .
the fact that he do not win a single primary outside he home state show that the country do not embrace he radical liberalism .
of course outspoken organization such as Planned Parenthood , which give a lot of money to Democrats , will fight with everything they have get to keep the democratic platform as liberal as possible .
result from the last few election suggest that would not be such a good idea if they ever want to gain more power in Congress .
Scott 2004-12-26T17:12:00 Peyton Manning break Dan Marino 's season touchdown record today with 49 against the San Diego Chargers in a thrilling game that end in overtime .
I be happy to see Manning break the record , as last week he decide to take a knee to end the game against the Baltimore Ravens when he could have try to increase the lead even more by throw a touchdown .
man be all class and rank with the best quarterback of all time .
Marino 's 48 td record be set in 1984 .
on a much sadder note , the Minister of Defense , Reggie White , die of heart attack this morning in he home at the age of 43 .
White play a total of 15 year with Philadelphia , Green Bay and Carolina .
he retire after the 2000 season as the NFL 's all-time leader in sack with 198 .
the mark have since be pass by Bruce Smith .
White will surely be miss .
Scott 2005-01-05T13:44:00 perhaps Father Simpson be too busy tell reporter how hot he think he daughter , Jessica , be to wake and up and realize that he other daughter , Ashlee , be make a complete fool of herself .
back in November I link to this fraud 's malfunction snl performance when a technical glitch cause the vocal track from she first song to repeat during the second , prove she lip-synch , even though she have be quote say she do not .
the humiliation and assault-on-music continue last night , when for some reason she decide to use she own voice in a wretched halftime performance at the Orange Bowl which end in a shower of boo .
you can see the video here if you can stand to watch a young no-talent wannabe continue to humiliate herself in public .
the best thing Ms. Simpson can do at this point be to just stop try and end she music career .
she have already make enough money from she debut album -lrb- never again -rrb- to live out the rest of she life in some secluded California mansion .
there be nothing more to the story .
Scott 2005-01-06T13:10:00 Feminists have a reason to celebrate today as a appeal court just throw out the conviction of they martyr , Andrea Yates , by rule that one of the prosecutor 's expert witness give false testimony at she trial .
Yates , in case you have forget , be the woman from Texas who heinously drown she five kid , aged 6 month to 7 year , one by one , in she bathtub .
liberal feminist organization rush to Yates ' defense , most notably the National Organization for Women , which provide money for she defense fund and hold candlelight vigil .
no such ceremony be hold for she five dead child .
in 2002 a jury sentence Yates to life in prison for the death of three of she child .
she be not try in the death of the other two .
today the 1st court of Appeals overturn the conviction and order a new trial .
we can only hope for the same verdict .
Scott 2005-01-07T20:12:00 The blood red nation of China be try to curb the effect of a devastating 20-year-old policy that outlaw woman from have more than one child .
as a result , only about 100 girl be bear for every 119 boy , because couple traditionally favor male .
Beijing have set a goal of reverse the imbalance by 2010 , and to do this they will outlaw the selective abortion of female fetus to correct a imbalance in the ratio of boy to girl .
so now by kill the male they can hopefully narrow the gender gap .
what a country !
from Reuters : sex-selective abortion be already ban but technology such as ultrasound have make it easier to know a baby 's gender in advance , increase the chance for abort girl .
despite a desire to curb the sex imbalance and a relaxation in recent year that allow rural family to have two child if the first be a girl , China have show no sign of abandon the one-child policy and crack down on those who advocate against it .
one such activist be Mao Hengfeng , who be dismiss in 1988 from she job at a Shanghai soap factory after become pregnant a second time .
last April , the Shanghai public security bureau sentence she to 18 month in a labor camp for campaigning against the one-child policy .
in other news : feminist still believe they be second-class citizen in the United States .
Scott 2005-01-09T16:27:00 Planned Parenthood , one of the worst organization in the country , have be distribute poor condom -- which liberal believe should be freely available in all high school clinic nationwide -- accord to Consumer report which release its ranking this week .
from Sun-Sentinal : two of the three type of free condom offer by Planned Parenthood receive poor rating , accord to ranking that appear in the February issue of consumer report , which hit newsstand Wednesday .
Planned Parenthood have since redesign its `` Honeydew '' condom , which be the magazine 's lowest-ranked brand with two `` poor '' rating in strength and reliability .
the group resubmit all three of its brand for independent testing and receive `` excellent result , '' say Karen Pearl , president and chief executive of Planned Parenthood of Nassau County .
the group 's `` assorted color '' brand be rank next-to-last with a `` poor '' mark for strength but a `` excellent '' for reliability .
the `` Lollipop '' get a overall `` excellent '' rating .
Pretty scary that poorly rate condom have be available to teens , both those look for free sex and those who happen to attend public school .
even worse , it take a whistleblower to get Planned Parenthood to strengthen its product .
Lollipop anyone ?
Scott 2005-01-13T14:00:00 in a horribly deceitful manner , the Brady Campaign have release `` report card '' for every state on they gun law that supposedly shield child from gun violence .
thirty-one state receive either a `` d '' or a `` f '' from the anti-gun group .
I have get all the goods in a new article I write for GunControlPolicy.com .
not surprisingly my home state of Florida receive a `` d + '' for reason that be just plain laughable and of course have nothing to do with kid .
Scott 2005-01-14T19:22:00 from the Associated Press : a atheist who try to remove `` under God '' from the pledge of Allegiance lose a bid Friday to bar the say of a christian prayer at President Bush 's inauguration .
Newdow argue that say a christian prayer at the Jan. 20 ceremony would violate the Constitution by force he to accept unwanted religious belief .
attorney represent Bush and he inaugural committee argue that prayer have be widely accept at inaugural for more than 200 year and that Bush 's decision to have a minister recite the invocation be a personal choice the court have no power to prevent .
force he to accept unwanted religious belief ?
no wonder you can not win a argument against a secularist .
they believe any inclusion of religious belief in one 's own personal ceremony be somehow a operation to indoctrinate the hoi polloi .
Scott 2005-01-16T21:49:00 The Food and Drug Administration be consider whether to make morning-after birth control available without a prescription .
the FDA may decide as soon as this week whether drug store can sell the emergency contraception know as plan b without a prescription to woman age 16 and older .
here be where I break with my conservative base and support the availability of plan b which can prevent pregnancy for up to 72 hour after sex .
with a 89 % success rate , we can be optimistic that we be on the right path to end unwanted pregnancy that do not involve a scalpel or suction tube .
conservative say people will be less reluctant to have risky and unprotected sex if they have get a box of b under the nightstand where condom traditionally collect .
but I would rather plan b be use to prevent pregnancy than the liberal ' preferred method ; a fork in the head and a knife to the spinal cord .
Scott 2005-01-24T13:54:00 this past weekend mark the 32-year anniversary of Roe v. Wade , the landmark Supreme Court decision that give way for the imminent slaughter of 43 million unborn child across the country in the name of `` woman 's rights . ''
today , thousand of pro-life crusader will participate in the March for Life in Washington D.C. , to honor the defenseless child and hope for a eventual Supreme Court reversal .
a reversal would not only be a victory for those who value life , but also for the woman once know as Jane Roe -- now a passionate pro-life advocate try to get the Supreme Court to overturn the case she once represent .
Michelle Malkin have the goods on the March as well as link to other resource .
Scott 2005-01-25T01:36:00 from the Associated Press : The Supreme Court decline Monday to consider whether state may offer license plate with anti-abortion message , leave lower court divide over whether the program in a dozen state unconstitutionally restrict dissenting view .
without comment , justice let stand a lower court ruling that say South Carolina 's license plate , which bear the slogan `` choose Life , '' violate the First Amendment because abortion rights supporter be not give a similar forum to express they belief .
say what ??
now the First Amendment guarantee all side a fair voice ?
where be liberal when Ralf Nader want such equality ?
and who on Earth could possibly have a problem with someone who pay $ 70 that go to a local crisis pregnancy program for a anti-abortion license plate ?
oh that be right .
the dastardly people at Planned Parenthood .
because no one should be allow to express a opinion that challenge the belief of the american leave .
Scott 2005-02-03T13:56:00 A CNN poll ask reader to rate the president 's state of the Union speech last night .
after 90,000 vote Mr. Bush have a ` c-c + ' grade across the board , mean 45,000 republican give he a ` a ' and 45,000 liberal fail he .
but a new cnn/usa today/gallup poll suggest more people side with the president .
70 percent of respondent say Bush 's policy on health care be positive , while 66 percent approve of the president 's plan for Social Security .
78 percent say U.S. policy in Iraq be hade in the right direction , a 12 percentage point increase over pre-speech polling .
overall , 77 percent of respondent say Bush be take the country in the right direction after the speech compare to 67 percent beforehand .
and who be not move by the embrace of mother of a soldier kill in Iraq and the daughter of a man kill by Saddam Hussein 's regime ?
it be a beautiful moment last night that result in the longest standing ovation of the evening .
today the parent of Marine Corps Sgt. Byron Norwood say the iraqi woman , Safia Taleb al-Suhail , have turn and introduce herself just before the speech .
`` she thank we for we son 's sacrifice and make sure we know the people in Iraq be grateful for the sacrifice that be make not just by we son , but by all of they , '' Janet Norwood say .
it be a uplifting moment suggest that maybe we be do the right thing .
I talk to a friend currently serve in Iraq last night and he say morale be up and the presence of troops be a positive thing .
they just can not pack up and leave .
not just yet .
we must be patient .
Scott 2005-02-05T19:54:00 we have all live next to some pretty undesirable people at one point or another , but I can not imagine anyone be worse than this .
a Colorado judge order two teen-age girl to pay about $ 900 for the distress a neighbor say they cause by give she home-made cookie adorn with paper heart .
the pair be order to pay $ 871.70 plus $ 39 in court cost after neighbor Wanita Renea Young , 49 , file a lawsuit complain that the unsolicited cookie , leave at she house after the girl knock on she door , have trigger a anxiety attack that send she to the hospital the next day .
Taylor Ostergaard , then 17 , and Lindsey Jo Zellitte , 18 , pay the judgment on Thursday after a small claim court ruling by La Plata County Court Judge Doug Walker , a court clerk say on Friday .
the girl baked cookie as a surprise for several of they rural Colorado neighbor on July 31 and drop off small batch on they porch , accompany by red or pink paper heart and the message : `` have a great night . ''
the Denver Post newspaper report on Friday that the girl have decide to stay home and bake the cookie rather than go to a dance where there might be cursing and drinking .
Zebra Report have a picture of the good-intentioned girl .
maybe delinquency do pay off better .
Scott 2005-02-08T11:42:00 in a recent blog post Michelle Malkin mention the `` abortion jewelry '' market by the lovely feminist of `` unf * cked p * ssy , '' Joanna Rytel .
not that I be surprised - consider not long ago we be introduce to a people who proudly don the `` I have a abortion '' slogan with great pride on they t-shirt .
the first trackback entry be from the typical anti-christian variety : Ms. Rytel be absolutely correct , the anti-abortion christian have manage to convice -lrb- sic -rrb- nearly everyone that abortion be wrong and people should feel horribly guilty over it .
like we have not hear this rant before .
yes , only the christian value life when it be a life before birth .
of course it would be wrong to make people feel `` horribly guilty '' over abortion , but celebrate the skull-cracking procedure `` for the sake of the child '' in the form of t-shirt and jewelry be to be admire .
the problem for the pro-abortion movement be that hardly anyone be take a stand to reverse this societal brainwashing .
even by call the movement `` pro-choice '' instead of `` pro-abortion , '' it give credence to the christian loony .
here be where I agree with my fellow Libertarian .
`` pro-choice '' be a soft and weak label for what those people really truly represent .
I prefer pro-murder , anti-life or anti-responsibility as a suitable replacement .
Scott 2005-02-13T21:23:00 from the Associated Press : A lone gunman open fire with a assault rifle Sunday inside a crowded mall in upstate New York , wound one person before run out of ammunition and be subdue by employee , authority say .
the gunman begin shoot inside the Hudson Valley mall shortly after 3 p.m. in Kingston , nearly 90 mile north of New York City .
the 24-year-old gunman go into a best buy store and start firing .
when he run out of ammunition , he be capture by mall employee , police say .
Ulster Town Supervisor Fred Wadnola identify the gunman 's weapon as a AK-47 assault rifle .
`` everyone be run and scream .
then I hear the shot , '' witness Heather Craig tell Fox News .
whoa !
you be tell I someone be able to take a AK-47 `` assault rifle '' into a mall and injure people ?!
but it be New York .
they have gun law !
and because New York have such strict gun law - mean citizen be prohibit from conceal weapon - a gunner can use bag-toting shopper as target practice because gun law keep mall shopper at he mercy .
have a armed civilian be inside the mall , perhaps he could have intervene before the suspect begin injure people before he run out of ammo .
but not in New York .
because there people like I who have never have so much as a traffic ticket in life can not conceal weapon , unlike in Florida , where you walk past we everyday without even know it .
Scott 2005-02-24T12:07:00 from the St. Pete Times : some Florida legislator want to give people the right to shoot a attacker in a public place .
a House committee vote Wednesday to allow people to shoot to kill in self-defense if they be attack `` in any other place where he or she have a right to be . ''
sponsor by Rep. Dennis Baxley , a Ocala Republican , the bill -lrb- hb 249 -rrb- pass 13-0 .
State law define deadly force as that which be likely to cause `` death or great bodily harm , '' such as firing a gun at a person or a vehicle .
Florida court consider deadly force a last resort and have hold that a person be attack have the `` duty to use every reasonable means to avoid the danger , include retreat , prior to use deadly force . ''
but this legislation say a person who be under attack in a public place `` have no duty to retreat . ''
`` law-abiding people should not be tell that if they be attack , they should turn around and run , '' NRA lobbyist Marion Hammer tell lawmaker .
`` this bill give back rights that have be erode and take away by a judicial system that at time appear to give preferential treatment to criminal . ''
Baxley hold up a stack of more than 800 e-mail from Floridians who he say have write he to support the bill .
he say 62 House member , a majority , have endorse he bill , and supporter include Attorney General Charlie Crist and group represent Florida sheriff , police chief and police officer .
Rep. Jeff Kottkamp , R-Cape Coral , say the bill remind he of a sign he see on a constituent 's house while campaigning door-to-door .
Kottkamp say the sign , next to a doorbell , show a smoking .44 - magnum handgun and the word : `` we do not dial 911 . ''
this be great news for Florida gun carrier because now to defend yourself you do not have to first make sure a `` duty to retreat '' be impossible .
currently , if one 's life be threaten he/she must make sure it be impossible to escape before use deadly force on a attacker .
Scott 2005-02-24T22:52:00 164 day after the expiration of the federal `` assault weapon '' ban some lunatic open fire with a AK-47 outside a Texas courthouse .
a brave civilian with a conceal weapon permit try to stop he but be gun down by David Hernandez Arroyo Sr , the scumbag who happen to be wear body armor at the time and who also take out he ex-wife over a child support dispute .
nice .
I would not be surprise if this Arroyo character -lrb- who be kill by police as he try to flee -rrb- have a serious criminal past but have be allow to walk free due to we lax judicial process .
should this be a call for more gun control ?
absolutely not .
this case tell we two thing : that conceal weapon permit holder respond faster than police because we be in greater number , and that criminal wear body armor too - so it be ridiculous to claim that we should outlaw gun that be `` too powerful '' for civilian use .
perhaps someone with a five-seven -lrb- the gun the Brady Campaign call the `` cop-killer '' and be try to ban -rrb- could have be more effective at stop the armor-wearing gunner .
God bless you , Mark Wilson , 52 , a true patriot who die today try to stop this despicable maniac .
Jim Bacon 2005-01-23T16:39:00 speak of major campaign contributor , here be the most interesting story to be cull from the Virginia Public access project .
the single largest political donor in the second half of 2004 be Sheila C. Johnson , of the Plains , who make five contribution total $ 320,490 .
-lrb- see cpap profile . -rrb-
what be so special about Sheila Johnson ?
not only be she develop the Salamander Inn & Spa in Fauquier County , and not only be she a major philanthropist , but she be a co-founder of of Black Entertainment Television with she ex-husband Robert L. Johnson .
if you have not figure it out yet , she be a african-american .
I know that do not fit the dominant , minorities-are-still-disenfranchised narrative of the mainstream media .
but the Old Dominion have come a long way , in my humble opinion , when the biggest campaign contributor in the state be african American .
you know we have come along way when African Americans be not just win elect office , as former Gov. Douglas Wilder do , but they be bankroll candidate for office -- white candidate for office .
Johnson 's donation last year include $ 287,490 for domocratic gubernatorial hopeful Tim Kaine .
will Vehrs 2005-01-25T11:08:00 Jim , you be not the only one mine the datum on political contribution .
over at the blog sic semper tyrannis , `` Addison '' have a interesting post on the top donor to Speaker Howell 's PAC .
e m Risse ????
- ??
- ??
t11 :31:00 Jim and Will : have some fun and check the `` northern Virginia supporter '' on the Baril web site .
just the folk who support he father-in-law on the condition he support they road plan .
emr Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :33:00 just want to add this to the discussion - I recently receive this press release from the Werkheiser campaign in NOVA - might this be the ONLY COMPETITIVE RACE THIS year ?!??!
pathetic ... WERKHEISER OUT-RAISES OPPONENT and LEADS CHALLENGERS STATEWIDE Greg Werkheiser , candidate for the House of Delegates from the 42nd District in southern Fairfax County , have raise significantly more money to date than he incumbent opponent , David Albo , and lead all challenger statewide in fundraising , accord to report file with the State Board of Elections on January 18 , 2005 .
Werkheiser out-raise he opponent by almost 2 to 1 : Werkheiser $ 81,615 ; Albo $ 55,119 .
Werkheiser now have twice as much unencumbered cash on hand as he opponent : Werkheiser $ 50,017 ; Albo $ 23,767 Werkheiser 's contribution come from 200 individual ; Albo have 8 individual contributor .
Werkheiser lead all challenger statewide in total contribution raise and fund on-hand .
the 42nd House of Delegates District form the southern tip of Fairfax County .
nearly fifty-two percent of the district vote for John Kerry in 2004 , and Governor Mark Warner win the district with similar margin in 2001 .
`` I be humble by the support of so many citizen in the 42nd District who be vote with they pocketbook for a change in leadership .
while we be very pleased with this outpouring of support , I be go to keep do what I have be do : listen to my neighbor and work to make we community in Fairfax County a better place to live , work and raise a family , '' state Werkheiser .
for more information about Greg Werkheiser 's campaign , please visit : www.werkheiserfordelegate.com Below be the detail from the fundraise total : WERKHEISER Total contribution receive : $ 81,615.42 cash receive : $ 67,814.09 in-kind receive : $ 13,801.33 cash expenditure : $ 17,796.52 loan : $ 0 cash on hand : $ 50,017.57 ALBO Total contribution receive : $ 55,119.75 cash receive : $ 55,119.75 in-kind receive : $ 400.00 cash expenditure : $ 34,267.77 loan : $ 10,500 -lrb- from himself -rrb- cash on hand : $ 23,767.77
will Vehrs 2005-01-27T10:17:00 The Augusta Free Press -lrb- motto : `` we only agenda be the truth '' -rrb- have a Chris Graham story on a Del. .
Chap Peterson , D-Fairfax , bill that would require payback by company lure to Virginia by incentive if they do not stay for five year .
the text of hb2898 be here .
Peterson , of course , be a candidate for the Lt. Governor nomination .
Graham 's article have the interesting hook of quote one of Peterson 's rival , former Congresswoman and State Sen. Leslie Byrne , as approve of the measure because it be `` something that I have be talk about for some time now . ''
the Virginia Economic Developers Association have not take a stance on the bill , but the organization 's leadership be expect to meet tomorrow to discuss it .
demand accountability from economic development be a rare phenomenon .
I would expect they to oppose it .
if anybody would like to debate the merit of this proposal or discuss economic development in general , the comment section be open .
PS one of we Bacons Rebellion contributor , Steven Sisson , offer this testimonial : `` without a doubt , the Augusta Free Press be the best thing since slice bread ! ''
hey , what be this blog , chop liver ?
Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :26:00 if I recall correctly , the last time that Virginia seriously address the `` incentive '' issue be during the Allen administration .
the idea then be to peg incentive to performance : if the tout job and investment do not materialize , you lose the tax break and incentive .
by demand accountability , Peterson 's bill be in the spirit of Virginia 's exist policy , think perhaps somewhat tougher .
Steven Sisson ????
- ??
- ??
t18 :02:00 Will Verhrs write : `` hey , what be this blog , chop liver ? ''
I be not a certifiable Blogophile yet .
in my estimation , the Bacon 's Rebellion blog be nothing more than `` Bacon Bits '' but do not blog I wrong , because I love bacon bit on salad .
the same might be say of Chap 's condiment-packaged business bill .
Delegate Chap Petersen bill be nothing more than salt and pepper electioneering in the 2005 statewide campaign -- and be probably tie into the democratic outsourcing clamor and grow threat of more manufacturing plant close , which John Kerry politically contrived and sensationalize for the 04 presidential run .
resident throughout the commonwealth of Virginia and the rest of the nation be economically vulnerable due to free trade agreement and the global economy .
but both party be responsible and have vote in favor of those agreement .
Lt. Governor candidate 's Chap Peterson and Leslie Byrne be both good politician , but need to start think outside the box with legislation that will attract and benefit economic growth for the business world and create sustainable workplace for Virginians .
Will , I agree with you analysis , the VA business community along with a majority of ga member will probably deep-six this 5-year mandatory requirement for compensation due to relocation .
if not border on the political ridorkulous -lrb- ridiculously dorky -rrb- , it be just plain ludicrous to believe business owner would agree to a capital investment with string attach to the business health and longevity .
reward-to-punishment-to-reward maybe good dog training technique , but it be not very business friendly .
the Commonwealth need legislation that require a mandatory Employee Stock Ownership Plan -lrb- ESOP -rrb- within the contractual economic development agreement .
the ESOP be itself a corporate finance vehicle that provide monetary incentive with lending institutes , state and federal tax benefit , new capital investment , and most of all , the stock ownership plan increase VA employee capital wealth .
more capital wealth will drive we consumer-base economy through the flip roof .
but most importantly , how many Virginia business will choose to relocate -- or outsource when employee be the corporate stockowner ?
and let say the business have no other choice but to remove to the third world ... when Virginia 's employee be fully vest in company stock , they will also reap from the profit of lower wages in the global marketplace just like the corporate big boy .
it be Win-Win -- sort of .
Phil Rodokanakis ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :33:00 Steve Sisson say : `` Lt. Governor candidate 's Chap Peterson and Leslie Byrne be both good politician ... '' define what make a `` good politician ! ''
if one define be on the extreme liberal fringe of the Democart party as good , than Byrne surely qualify under that label .
Peterson be slightly to the right of Byrne , but not by much ... frankly , I do not consider tax and spend liberal as good politician .
unfortunately , the Republican Party be also load with its share of irresponsible big spender , but hopefully some of they will be hold accountable during the 2005 primary election .
on the other hand , I have yet to see any Democrats challenge incumbent for be fiscally irresponsible .
Scott ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :42:00 accountbility be important .
I hope Wilder will return it to Richmond .
for year we have see abuse by ` public-private ' partnership like Richmond Renaissance and now vpaf .
I would like to see the bill apply to the shady Broad Street CDA .
Barnie Day 2005-02-04T13:26:00 Renowned UVA political scientist Larry Sabato this morning announce a $ 1,000,000 cash gift to the University of Virginia .
the gift , payable over three year , be the largest ever give the university by a active faculty member , accord to UVA President John Casteen .
Sabato have write 23 book .
some of they have be read !
mostly lift from the Associated Press Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t20 :45:00 that be pretty darn generous .
be it he money ?
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t20 :45:00 I be not ashamed to say that I be in the tank for Professor Sabato .
he maintain he political independence as well as any pundit and this donation affirm that the word he be always use to describe he commitment to UVA be genuine .
he could have move on to any number of tv or print opportunity , but have stay in Charlottesville to continue he good work .
I would suggest Wahoos disenchanted with Pete Gillen rally around Sabato as the embodiment of they university 's excellence .
will Vehrs 2005-02-05T19:19:00 with no web presence , publication like the Richmond Free Press be rarely acknowledge in the blogosphere .
the rfp serve the african-american community in the city of Richmond .
in the latest edition , staff writer Jeremy M. Lazarus report that the legislative black Caucus celebrate kill a bill that would have merge the Department of Minority Business Enterprise -lrb- DMBE -rrb- with the Department of Business Assistance -lrb- DBA -rrb- .
Del. .
Dwight Jones -lrb- D-Richmond -rrb- , chair of the caucus , say kill the bill have be they `` main objective '' in a effort to , accord to Lazarus , `` promote economic justice for black business . ''
I believe any neutral management consultant worth he or she salt would recommend a merger of the two organization .
there be considerable duplication of effort and DBA be strong in one area -- financial control -- where DMBE have consistently have problem .
there would be service benefit to business client , too .
nonetheless , the symbolism of have they `` own '' agency and support from Governor Warner for maintain DMBE 's `` independence '' apparently overcome any efficiency and service argument .
another article , this one by staff writer Skeeter Faulk , describe Sen. George Allen 's commitment to name the new Federal courthouse in downtown Richmond for Spottswood W. Robinson III , a note NAACP lawyer and federal judge .
Robinson work with Thurgood Marshall on Brown v. Board of Education .
Faulk find the nomination a `` surprise '' in light of Allen 's past , when he `` embrace and glorify the confederate flag and its sympathizer . ''
Faulk chalk the name up to Allen 's presidential ambition .
it be tough to be a republican when it come to the african-american community .
do nothing and you confirm they worst suspicion ; do something and it arouse a different kind of suspicion .
Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t17 :26:00 Will , I share you frustration at the reaction to Allen 's nod to Spottswood Robins .
among some segment of the african-american community , it be indeed a matter of damned-if-you-do , damned-if-you-don ` t .
but you could say the same thing of the Democratic Party as a whole .
I think it be important to recognize that african Americans , though still overwhelmingly democratic , comprise less of a monolith than they do 20-30 year ago .
I find myself continually amaze at how open-minded many young African-Americans be .
and I think that open-mindedness go a long way to explain the desperate effort of many -lrb- not all , but many -rrb- within the Democratic Party to circle the wagon with the cry of `` racism , racism , racism '' when the evidence of racism be increasingly a stretch .
it be like how , after the civil war , Republicans `` wave the bloody shirt '' , associate the Democratic Party with the secession and , ultimately , the war itself .
eventually , that tactic lose its power .
and so , too , will the cry of racism , racism .
Scott ????
- ??
- ??
t11 :15:00 agree .
more importantly , the lack of disclosure be frightening .
Media General/Times Dispatch , Richmond.com , and the Richmond Free Press all have significant tie to the vpaf 's propose Virginia perform art Center , yet we do not see anything resemble balanced coverage of the controversy and debate surround this issue .
will Vehrs 2005-02-06T13:45:00 Former Senator Chuck Robb have not be hear from lately .
Parade magazine remind we today that he be a co-chair of the Commission on the Intelligence capability of the United States regard Weapons of Mass Destruction .
they will report on March 31 .
I suspect Rob will speak out after that date , although much of the Committee 's report will be classify .
Virginia be bless to have so many respect foreign policy and security policy public servant , past and present .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t16 :38:00 good old Chuck Robb ... I assume everyone on here have see `` the Perfect Candidate '' ?
quite a treat .
will Vehrs 2005-02-09T07:21:00 Earth & Sky , a program that air on NPR , feature a Virginia Tech chemist this morning .
Karen Brewer be work to develop a hydrogen generation system `` that be energy efficient , inexpensive , clean and renewable . ''
wonder what she think of Larry Summer 's remark on woman and science ... .
maybe some day we will be stick in traffic in hydrogen-powered car .
Phil Rodokanakis ????
- ??
- ??
t08 :28:00 I wonder what the toll on the Dulles toll Road would be by that day ?
Scott ????
- ??
- ??
t11 :12:00 New solar + new nanotechnology + new fule cell technology + new distribution technology the component be there if we can get the power company to quit they lobbying and opposition .
States like New Jersey be put solar on school roof and allow those school to earn money even during the summer when they be close .
Virginia be fall behind when we should be ahead with school like Tech develop the technology .
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t13 :20:00 the hydrogen tax will pay for MagLev all over Virginia .
will Vehrs 2005-02-10T07:28:00 here be my second morning NPR post in a row ... Mickey Kaus in Slate be listen : here be how NPR 's all thing consider cover President Bush 's propose cut in Community Development Block Grants -- by lob softball to a CDBG supporter !
no oppose view .
... this be not just liberal , but dumb liberal -- npr could easily have find a Democrat , maybe even a old Democrat , who believe cdbg be a ineffective antipoverty program .
-lrb- basically they be slush fund for local politician , who too often sluice the federal money to they developer friend to build ugly downtown hotel . -rrb-
it be my sense that in Virginia , the CDBG program be use extensively in rural area and , on the whole , have do some good .
maybe someone know of CDBG fund use in Virginia as Mickey describe .
I hope not , but , if so , it look like there will not be as much of that in the future .
Jim Bacon 2005-02-14t09:44:00 by Steven Sisson Choir boy Tim Kaine be a political moderate inform by he catholic belief .
but look for the Kilgore team to paint he as a liberal for he record on tax hike and the death penalty .
the Blue Dog personally view Lt. Gov. Tim Kaine as a moderate-to-conservative politician .
Kaine have never be a Amway Christian , nor do he hold a lifetime membership to the C-E Club -lrb- i.e. , only attend church service on Christmas and Easter holiday -rrb- .
more anonymous ????
- ??
- ??
t07 :49:00 Kaine a `` moderate to conservative '' ?
who be this guy try to kid ?
Kaine be as liberal as they come .
who other than a left-wing liberal would agree to represent a two-time murderer -lrb- Lem Tugle -rrb- for free , to try and keep he from get the death penalty .
Tugle be on trial for rape and kill a southwest Virginia grandmother .
after kill she , he dump she body down the same ditch where he dump the 17-year-old girl he have previously be convict of murder .
Tugle be on parole for this crime when he kill the grandmother .
I understand that represent people be what attorney do but even attorney have some choice in whom they represent .
the line of defense Kaine use be that Tugle have not really rape the grandmother because `` forcable sodomy be not rape accord to the law at the time . ''
Barnie Day 2005-02-16T15:36:00 as expect the Senate Finance Committee this afternoon kill a proposal by House Republicans to finish implementation of the car tax cut by phase out the remain 30 % over the next six year .
the move leave intact state reimbursement for the locally-imposed property tax at a aggregate of $ 950 million annually .
at present , that amount cover approximately 70 % of the tax for the average affected car owner .
the commitee action come two day before House and Senate budget conferee be expect to begin negotiate difference in the respective proposal .
Phil Rodokanakis ????
- ??
- ??
t20 :14:00 Yep , like I say before , it be either Chichester 's way or the highway .
it be simply mind-boggling that Chichester be allow to single-handedly govern we entire state .
I hate to shatter you illusion Barnie .
you chum , Gov. Pinocchio , be not in-charge of the state .
Chichester be new we master ... will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t20 :36:00 what if Chichester have be elect Lt. Gov , instead of Wilder , all those year ago ?
fun to speculate .
both be still pretty important , while so many of they contemporary have have they moment and move on .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :00:00 Mark Warner 's career might not have get off the ground - do not he chair Wilder 's campaign in 89 ?
Barnie Day 2005-02-16T16:18:00 The Senate Courts Committee this afternoon kill Delegate Dick Black 's bill that would have require adoption authority to ascertain whether prospective adoptive adult have ever engage in homosexual behavior .
there be no vote .
the bill die for lack of a motion .
or lack of emotion .
or lack of interest .
or of boredom .
there just seem to be very little support for this ... zzzzzz .
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t18 :59:00 nbc-12 in Richmond report it go down on a unrecorded voice vote ... I suppose that be not materially different from you report , but black want a record vote and do not get it .
it be not a profile in courage to avoid a record vote .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t09 :44:00 certainly not - but I think it trump give black satisfaction of be able to slap the `` anti-family ! ''
on tolerant legislator .
Scott ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :34:00 what be important to realize be that Black 's `` scientist '' be give no credence whatsoever .
they lack credibilty .
the failure of this bill be a small glimmer of hope in what have be a dismal season .
Barnie Day 2005-02-16T16:32:00 The Senate Finance Committee today gut the House of Delegates propose billion dollar transportation package in a move one observer describe as a ` bitch slapping . '
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :01:00 the House appropriate more money for transportation than the Senate .
how do a body that want to raise tax to pump more money into transportation next year get to `` bitch slap '' more money now ?
Phil Rodokanakis ????
- ??
- ??
t20 :06:00 what be become abundantly clear be that it be either Chichester 's way or the highway -lrb- pun intend -rrb- Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t09 :42:00 Tis a sad day for Dave Albo 's law firm , which be count on he to push the abuser fee bill and bring they more client .
can we have a moment of silence ?
Joe Freeman ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :09:00 if bitch slap be administer to keep the ` ho service the client , who be the client here ?
since the gubernatorial race in the fall undoubtedly dominate all decision from this point on , could it be a client who must be service to serve November purpose ?
could it be those who will forego a little now , and be willing to give a lot before Nobvember , in order to get a whole lot more in 2006 ?
will Vehrs 2005-02-17T07:44:00 many of the good-governik who write for Bacon 's rebellion have point out the deleterious effect of gerrymandering on Virginia .
some would say the problem be on display in Capitol Square right now .
there be a anti-gerrymandering movement gain a small head of steam in California .
the Golden State often lead the way for the nation on `` reform , '' for good or ill .
Mickey Kaus of Slate remind we that the California initiative bear watch and we should follow the motive of those who support or oppose the current redistricting process .
Mickey cite two Stuart Taylor article on the subject that should be require reading for any who would debate the issue , here and here .
Barnie Day ????
- ??
- ??
t09 :01:00 hand in hand with any consideration of the redistricting process , we shoul give some think to the structural relationship between the state House and Senate .
currently , each House member represent approximately 75,000 Virginians , while each Senator represent appoximately 187,500 .
often as not , there be no rational commonality between the two .
some senator represent people pool that be in turn fracture into five or six House district .
I believe this account , in large part , for the dysfunction that characterize we state government now .
former governor Gerald Baliles , in this same vein , have advocate a realignment of the two house in a way that serve commonality .
he have suggest that we either increase membership in the Senate to 50 , or decrease House membership to 80 , produce a scenario wherein 1 Senator would represent a block of people who be represent by exactly 2 Delegates .
he think -- and I think he be right -- that this arrangement would foster a closer working relationship between the Senate and the House .
you certainly would not have these dysfunctional grouping we now have , where 1 Senator often represent a population divide among half a dozen Delegates of two party -- three , if you count independent .
will Vehrs 2005-02-18T08:48:00 back in 1996 , budget cut eliminate the job of State Archaeologist .
now , accord to the Virginian-Pilot , the job be about to come back via hb 2078 .
with all this surplus float around and the Jamestown 2007 celebration come up , who want the state to be shorthand in archaeology ?
the last state archaeologist , Catherine Slusser , be still around , accord to the article , serve the Department of historical Resources .
she describe the untenable ongoing situation with archaeology budget cut : `` few Virginia employee have attend national conference . ''
John K. ????
- ??
- ??
t11 :44:00 Though taxpayer be malcontent , the assembly will not refund a cent .
with so much to spend , they follow the trend and give we a certified rodent .
Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :35:00 I nominate John K. for Virginia 's first poet laureate .
Steven Sisson ????
- ??
- ??
t15 :27:00 governor Mark , pudding and pie tax those citizen and make they cry when the anti-taxer come out to play governor Mark run away .
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t17 :51:00 Jim , it look like a contest !
will Vehrs 2005-02-18T12:14:00 Virginia be apparently go to be build a datum center in Richmond , a back-up datum center , and a help desk/call center as a follow-on to the creation of VITA , the Virginia Information Technology Agency .
the Bristol Herald Courier editorial page be urge that the back-up center be build in Wise County to take advantage of uva-wise .
SCHEV , of course , tell the General Assembly that UVA-Wise do not generate any economic development , so a new university in Southside would not , either .
the Courier say Wise should get the center over Danville because there be no southside university .
no other candidate location be identify .
I believe that any new state-wide service facility should be locate in either Southside or Southwest .
if we can tie up all state procurement official and all vendor in a quest to help under-represented small , minority , and woman-owned business , we should commit all new state facility spending in a quest to help we economically disadvantaged region .
Barnie Day ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :35:00 I like it , Will .
can we call it the ` Robert Byrd Model of Pork Barrel spend ' ?
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :42:00 Let 's name it after one of we profligate republican Delegates !
Barnie , have you ever be to the National Conservation and Training Center near Shepherdstown , WVA ?
that be the only Byrd pork project I have ever visit .
it be magnificent pork , truly a monument to the art .
Barnie Day ????
- ??
- ??
t13 :20:00 he will have the Washington Monument in West Virginia , if he can just figure out how to haul it .
will Vehrs 2005-02-22T08:17:00 Del. .
Adam Ebbin -lrb- D , Alexandria -rrb- be the first openly gay member to serve in the House of Delegates .
there be a brief profile of ebbin by Kristen Gelineau in today 's Daily Press .
what I find interesting be the contrast in reaction to ebbin from two colleague : `` I suppose that one of the concern be that since he be the only openly gay member of the Legislature , be whether or not that would be the only issue that he would ... talk about , '' say Del. .
Ward Armstrong , D-Henry County .
`` that clearly have not be the case .
he be a very versatile delegate . ''
Del. .
Richard Black , R-Loudoun , who have compile a track record as one of the most socially conservative member of the state legislature and be the sponsor of the gay adoption bill , say he be not try to stamp out gay rights but be simply try to preserve tradition .
as for he personal feeling on Ebbin , after a lengthy pause , the Loudoun Republican offer : `` he be always prompt and , you know , on time to meeting . ''
a moment later , he add , `` I think he work hard . ''
I think it be possible to support some of Black 's position but still be very disappoint by he cold assessment of a colleague .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t11 :16:00 Dick Black be a statesman .
Salt Lick ????
- ??
- ??
t14 :33:00 Odd how different we perception be .
I read Black 's comment as more genuine and straightforward than Armstrong 's .
I would much rather someone call I `` prompt '' and `` hard-working '' than `` very versatile . ''
the latter sound like weasel word -- `` well , '' Johnnie 's teacher say , `` he be not too bright , and he table manners be atroctious , but he be very versatile . ''
will Vehrs ????
- ??
- ??
t14 :56:00 maybe it be the pointed reference of the reporter to the pause Black make that troubled I .
I appreciate you take on it ; that be why I love this comment section .
I may be way off-base .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :30:00 the Ward Armstrong comment be incredibly idiotic as well ...
will Vehrs 2005-02-22T13:48:00 anyone who have spend any time in nva over the last 40 year be familiar with the Giant grocery store chain .
when the chain pass from its private owner a few year ago , problem begin .
these problem multiply when the New England chain stop n ' Shop acquire Giant .
add new competition -- Food Lion , Harris Teeter , and Wegman 's -- and loyalty to Giant , once a article of faith , be dissipate .
it be a cautionary tale for business and for any long-standing organization seek to change .
Michael Barbaro have a article on Giant 's recent problem in the Washington Post , plus he take question online today .
one interesting note : most of the online negative comment about giant come from Maryland resident .
most of the new store compete with giant be in Virginia .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t09 :54:00 I be new to this area -lrb- 1 year -rrb- so I can not really comment on Giant .
seem like a ok store ... I prefer Harris Teeter .
now Ukrops !
that be a well run enterprise .
Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :44:00 we Richmonders , we do love we Ukrops !
we be fiercely loyal .
Paul ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :54:00 I work there as a youngster many year back .
bagged grocery .
and I remember one day they have a dozen japanese businessman tour the place try to figure out how they do it ...
will Vehrs 2005-02-26T13:17:00 a old friend , Joseph Britt of Kennesaw , GA , recently email to ask about anti-immigration as a issue for Virginia Democrats .
Joe have just read a George W. Grayson article in the William & Mary Alumni Magazine , '' Myths about Illegal Immigration . ''
Grayson do not cite any Virginia example , but among the `` myth '' he attempt to explode be that illegal immigrant perform job american do not want and that they contribute more in tax and social security than they take from government program .
Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t11 :25:00 I personally know a good number of immigrant , both legal and illegal .
one fellow , a brazilian , have do everything by the book .
he get reward by have to pay a immigration attorney thousand of dollar while get yank around by the Immigration Service ... not to mention , he be pay the government thousand in tax .
he get very frustrated because many of he contemporary work for cash under the table .
they be not pay lawyer , and they pay nothing into the system .
of course , the Americans who employ illegal immigrant be happy to pay in cash because it mean cheaper labor for they .
who benefit ?
the illegal immigrant themselves , of course .
the employer who hire they instead of raise wages to attract native-born Americans and legal immigrant .
and family who hire cheap domestic labor , whether to clean the house , wash the laundry or maintain the lawn .
who lose ?
Poor , native-born Americans who otherwise would be pay higher wages for they manual labor .
legal immigrant like my brazilian friend , who sometimes feel like a sap for play by the rule .
and the rest of we who will not hire anyone to work for we unless they be pay they tax , even if it mean we pay more .
yeah , I have get a problem with turn around and give illegal immigrant all the rights and privilege of the native bear and the legal immigrant who have play by the rule .
yes , I do .
will Vehrs 2005-02-27T12:38:00 Governor Mark Warner have turn state government upside-down in a effort to do more business with small , woman , and minority own -lrb- swam -rrb- firm and the thanks he get be headline like this one in the Daily Press : Warner 's plan to raise contracting diversity fall short .
the article be full of innuendo that procurement offical be ignore the governor 's wish and just wait for he to leave office , that `` special deal '' be cut with non-swam vendor , and that somehow the electronic procurement system be `` stack '' against SWAM firm .
if true , these be serious charge , worthy of high-level investigation .
what be miss from the article , though , be any attempt at investigative journalism to give even one factual example support the innuendo .
what be also miss be a fair-minded review of whether the sag number report for SWAM procurement be valid .
Someday a journalist be go to take the time to watch a sample number of swam firm submit bid on openly post contract , then use procurement tool that be in place to determine if any swam firm be unfairly deny contract they deserve .
until then , this carping appear to be sour grape .
Governor Warner have do plenty to open up the system to swam firm and give they a presumptive advantage , even invite a backlash by non-swam firm .
maybe swam firm be not do all they can to return the governor 's faith in they .
Jim Bacon ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :39:00 the dominant narrative among the Mainstream Media , even at a local level , be that the institution of U.S. society be , to vary degree , racist .
any shortcoming in minority achievement be to be explain as the result of discrimination of some sort .
end of story .
what be to investigate ?
what need to examine `` the other side of the story ? ''
Curt 2004-11-13T15:28:00 welcome all to my new site .
I have decide to incorporate my old work blog into a general blog , the work diary be up on the right title `` my work diary '' .
EFF YEAH !
BUSH win !
ok then .
my next thought .
the world be a much better place now that the terrorist Yassar Arafat be dead .
here be a good one minute video on he great legacy here .
this guy be one of the early innovator of terrorism in this century and he be protray by the Main Stream Media -lrb- MSM for short -rrb- as a `` freedom fighter '' .
because of he million of palestinian choose `` jihad '' over peace with Isreal .
he innovate suicide bomber and plane hijacking plus he embezzell hundred of million of dollar from aid fund ... and this guy get a nobel peace prize , what a disgrace .
update 1 - Drudge be report that Arafat have be skim 2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territory mag : Arafat Skimmed $ 2 Million a Month from the Gas Trade Sun Nov 14 2004 09:53:40 ETNew York -- last year auditor discover Arafat be guilty of skim $ 2 million a month from the gasoline trade in the territory , time reports.in August 2002 international donor force Arafat to sign over he investment to the Palestine Investment Fund , which be audit by U.S. accountant and manage by palestinian Finance Minister Salam Fayyad , a former International Monetary Fund official .
after scour corporation throughout the Arab world and bank account in the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg , the auditor identify $ 800 million , which have be make a part of the palestinian Authority 's official budget .
it be the most successful financial reform in the Arab world , -- Jim Prince , president of the Los angeles-based Democracy Council and head of the audit team , tell TIME .
people close to Fayyad 's investigation tell time of Arafat 's skim from the gas trade .
break the gasoline smuggling and corruption boost the palestinian Authority 's official treasury by $ 10 million a month and cut gas price for ordinary Palestinians .
`` Arafat 's death mean he follower may never know just how much more they may be owe , `` write TIME 's Matt Rees in `` where 's Arafat 's money ? ''
in the mid-1990 , Arafat control a financial empire worth at least $ 3 billion .
by the time of he death , he be down to he last $ 1 billion , accord to israeli-intelligence estimates.arafat wife Suha 's outburst that he successor be `` try to bury -lsb- he -rsb- alive '' come after she learn that Arafat have sign over at least $ 800 million to the government of the palestinian Authority two year ago , time report .
top palestinian official say Suha want the new chief of the P.L.O. , Mahmoud Abbas , and palestinian prime minister Ahmed Qurei to give she money out of the P.L.O. 's party coffer .
but a senior P.L.O. official tell TIME , `` they will pay she a pension , and that be it . ''
people familiar with Arafat 's finances say the palestinian leader send Suha $ 200,000 a month out of the palestinian Authority 's budget for the Office of the President .
french authority be investigate transfer of $ 15 million from swiss bank to Paris account in Suha 's name at the Arab Bank and at BNP Paribas Bank , a french bank , time reports.senior palestinian security official tell time that Arafat also ship money to the gunman of the Aqsa Martyrs Brigades .
develop ... sure sound like a Nobel Prize winner to I .
Curt 2004-11-14T12:40:00 Time be report today that a al-Qaeda operative be capture and be spit out that they have plan in the work to smuggle nuke into the US from Mexico , see the article here .
thank god Bush be still we president , although I strongly disagree with he on he new immigration policy .
this policy would just make it easier for the enemy to get within we border .
Curt 2004-11-15T16:13:00 just report from ap that Condi Rice have be choose by President Bush to become the new Secretary of State for he second term .
I agree with he choice and think she will make a much better Secretary then Powell do .
she view be much more in step with the President then Powell , although he be a true soldier and carry the message .
plus , any lady who work out to Led Zeppelin and be a football nut be alright in my book .
Curt 2004-11-16T08:33:00 thanks to Captain Ed for bring this up .
apparently James Baker , former Secretary of State and current envoy for the Bush Administration , have ask the isreali government to release a scumbag terrorist to promote `` peace '' .
there be now ... .
in a israeli prison a man name Marwan Barghouti , who be one of the young guard of Palestinians , and if the Palestinians be go to make this work against the really hard-line element , the Islamists and some of the people of Hamas , they be go to have to have a coalition of the young guard and the old guard . ''
Got ta say that this shocked I , I have always think Mr. Baker be a upstand guy but this be just plain good old fashion bullcrap .
here be some of the fine achievement of the terrorist Marwan Barghouti Marwan Barghouti -lrb- bear June 6 , 1958 -rrb- be a palestinian leader from the West Bank and a leader of the Fatah movement that form the backbone of the palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization -lrb- PLO -rrb- .
on June 6 , 2004 , he be sentence to five life sentence for five murder of israeli civilian and 40 year imprisonment for attempt murder in terrorist attack against israeli civilian .
Barghouti be one of the major leader of the First Intifada in 1987 , lead Palestinians in a mass uprising against israeli occupation of the West Bank .
during the uprising , he be arrest by Israel and deport to Jordan , where he stay for seven year until he be permit to return under the term of the Oslo Accords in 1994 .
in 1996 , he be elect to the palestinian legislative Council , in which he advocate peace with Israel , sometimes come in conflict with Yasser Arafat .
the formal position occupy by Barghouti be the General Secretary of Fatah in the West Bank .
by the summer of 2000 , Barghouti and Arafat have grow increasingly at odds with each other , with Barghouti accuse Arafat 's administration of corruption and he security service of human rights violation , and Arafat be plan to fire he shortly .
however , as the second intifada begin , Barghouti become increasingly popular as a leader of the Fatah Tanzim militia .
this be perhaps due to the transformation of Tanzim into a organization more resemble militant group like Hamas and Islamic Jihad , responsible for dozen of civilian death in drive-by shooting .
under Barghouti , the Tanzim have also carry out suicide bombing in Israel under the name al-aqsa martyr ' brigade .
what be he think ?
release a known terrorist to run the PLO and that will bring about peace , give I a effin break
Curt 2004-11-17T20:02:00 Chris Matthews , that idiot talk head over at MSNBC , say yesterday about the terrorist we fight in Fallujah `` a rival , I mean they be not bad guy especially , just people who just disagree with we '' ... this just amaze I , the complete idiocy of this waste of human sperm .
these be the same terrorist blow up family , chop off head of civilian , and the complete disregard for any human life and they just disagree with we ?
tell that to the family of Margaret Hassan , the school teacher who be brutally tortured and then slaughter by these same guy , they be not so bad be they Chris Matthews ?
this woman who be know for she 30 year of work in Iraq , distribute medicine , food and supplies to Iraqis suffer under the sanction of the 1990s .
british official say they believe Hassan be a blindfold woman see be shoot in the head by a hooded militant on a video obtain but not air by the Arab television station Al-Jazeera .
she would be the first foreign woman to die in the wave of kidnapping in Iraq .
no group have claim responsibility .
on Sunday , Marines find the mutilate body of what they believe be a western woman on a street in Fallujah during the U.S. assault on the insurgent stronghold .
the body , clothe in what appear to be a purple , velour dress , be wrap in a blanket , with a blood-soaked black cloth nearby .
as of Tuesday night , the U.S. command say the body have not be identify .
these be the reason that none of these mothereffer should ever see the light of day ... they need to be all line up and shot .
torture this poor woman for what ?
what ?
and we should treat they as enemy soldier under the Geneva Convention .
last I remember the convention apply to country that sign the document and the two country must have stand army with uniform ... the iraqi military be at we side , the terrorist be not .
since when be terrorist soldier ?
they be lower then dog .
finally there be this write by a student of Mrs. Hassan she be my English teacher in the memory of my teacher and a fellow aid worker colleague Mrs. M. Hassan Mrs. Hassan be my English teacher in the british Council in Baghdad in Al-Wazirya district , I remember she year ago with she irish accent tell I it be not important how many word I must learn but the pronunciation of the word I already know must be perfect .
Mrs. Hassan speak s perfect arabic and she have a heart of gold , she be be kill by -lrb- man in pajamas -rrb- , turn Iraq upside down and find they .
the Marines will find they , and when they do they shall die .
Curt 2004-12-28T09:27:00 2Slick point I to a article at in Iraq for 365 .
this be a great blog and I encourage you all to read it regularly .
on Sunday he write of two iraqi soldier who do not see we as conqueror but as ally when the Mosul bombing occur .
the suicide bomb spray bb-like fragment throughout the Marez dining facility .
one piece of shrapnel slice through the femoral artery of a U.S. soldier and he only chance for survival be in the hand of these two Iraqis .
recall the medical class they would receive from the special force , the Iraqis react calmly , fasten a belt above the wound , create a tourniquet , which stop the gush stream of red .
they move the soldier to a medvac vehicle via two-man litter carry .
after they hoist the soldier in the truck , the two Iraqis -- one a officer , the other a NCO -- run back to the facility and begin treat the other wound without regard for they safety .
when the dust settle and the mess tent have be evacuate , everybody who could talk be question about they health .
when the medic come to the two Iraqis , the ING soldier only want to know how everybody else be .
when ask why do they do it , they simply state , `` this be we duty ; we be a team , and we take care of each other . ''
even the Americans .
no matter what the MSM try to tell you , there be iraqi 's who will help the ally , who will fight alongside they and put they life at risk to make sure democracy succeed in they country .
this bring to mind a speech Prime Minister Tony Blair give recently while visit Iraq .
when I meet the people work alongside the United Nations -- Iraqis in fear of they life every day , because they be try to bring freedom and democracy to they people -- when I see they courage and they determination and know that they speak for the vast majority of people in Iraq who want that democracy and freedom , then I know that we be do the right thing ... .
and I will also say this to you : there be people die in Iraq , but the reason people be die be because of the terrorism and the intimidation and the people who be deliberately kill anyone try to make this country better .
now what should we response be as a international community ?
we response should be to stand alongside the democrat -- the people who have get the courage to see this thing through -- and help they see it through .
I have get no doubt at all that that be the right thing for we to do ... .
sometimes when I see some of the reporting of what be happen in Iraq in the rest of the world , I just feel that people should understand how precious what have be create here be .
and those people from that electoral commission that I describe as the hero of the new Iraq -- every day ... a lot of they be not live in the Green Zone , they have get to travel in from outside .
they do not know at any point in time whether they be go to be subject to brutality or intimidation , even death , and yet they carry on do it .
now what a magnificent example of the human spirit -- that be the side we should be on .
Curt 2004-12-30T18:44:00 this recent news story be trouble in many different way .
when I first hear of the story I figure it be some wackjob playing with a new toy but now we find out there have be 7 incident since Christmas from the West to East coast .
the FBI , concern that terrorist could use laser as weapon , be investigate why laser beam be direct into the cockpit of seven airplane in flight since Christmas .
Laser beam can temporarily blind or disorient pilot and possibly cause a plane to crash .
the FBI be look into two incident in Colorado Springs , Colo. , and one each in Cleveland , Washington , Houston , Teterboro , N.J. , and Medford , Ore. , accord to federal and local law enforcement and transportation official , some of whom speak only on condition of anonymity .
a federal law enforcement official , who decline to be identify by name , say Thursday there be no evidence of a plot or terrorist activity .
but pilot be trouble by the incident , and the FBI earlier this month warn of the possibility that terrorist might use the device as weapon .
`` it be not some kid , '' say Paul Rancatore , a pilot who serve as deputy chairman of the security committee for the Allied Pilots Association .
`` it be too organize . ''
Loren Thompson , who teach military technology at Georgetown University , call it a `` rather worrisome development , '' though he say expert would be more puzzle than alarm .
`` what we be talk about be a fairly powerful visible light laser that have the ability to lock onto a fast-moving aircraft , '' Thompson say .
`` that be not the sort of thing you pick up at a military surplus store . ''
Thompson say a piece of equipment that could do the thing the FBI suspect would be `` fairly expensive and fairly sophisticated . ''
`` it sound like a organize effort to cause airline accident , '' Thompson say .
Michelle Malkin have a post about this today where some outlet have stop sell laser .
lot of people think that these indeed might be loony play with new Christmas toy but I disagree .
these be incident where the Airplanes be track , some as high as 8500 foot .
to track a fast move plane at that altitude would not be some toy you can get from the local wal-mart .
in my opinion this be quite alarming .
this be not write , it be typing have a great post out with a ton of info , some of it quite scary a more frightening scenario be that terrorist may have obtain a chinese-produced zm-87 laser blinder which be specifically design to blind eyesight .
the japanese terrorist cult Aum Shinrikyo -- which launch the infamous Sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway system in 1995 -- be discover to have experiment with the use of laser as weapons.according to the Asian Pacific Post , `` cult member apparently obtain laser design information from russian institutes they visit and build a laser weapon mount on a truck .
they have plan to use the laser against Tokyo policemen , but the plan fail when the laser malfunction during the testing stage . ''
PoliticAlex also have some info on this story also .
I find the follow report that be present to Congress recently about the shoulder launch missle threat to airliner , which this might very well be a precursor to : recent event have focus attention on the threat that terrorist with shoulder fire surface-to-air missile -lrb- sam -rrb- , refer to as Man-Portable Air Defense Systems -lrb- MANPADS -rrb- , pose to commercial airliner .
most believe that no single solution exist to effectively mitigate this threat .
instead , a menu of option may be consider , include install infrared -lrb- ir -rrb- countermeasure on aircraft ; modify flight operation and air traffic control procedure ; improve airport and regional security ; and strengthen missile non-proliferation effort .
equip aircraft with missile countermeasure system can protect the aircraft even when operate in area where ground-based security measure be unavailable or infeasible to implement .
however , this option have a relatively high cost , between $ 1 million and $ 3 million per aircraft , and the time need for implementation do not allow for immediate response to the exist terrorist threat .
procedural improvement such as specific flight crew training , alter air traffic procedure to minimize exposure to the threat , and improve security near airport may be less costly than countermeasure and could more immediately help deter domestic terrorist attack .
however , these technique by themselves can not completely mitigate the risk of domestic attack and would not protect U.S. airliner fly to and from foreign airport .
legislation introduce in the 108th Congress -lrb- H.R. 580 , S. 311 -rrb- call for the installation of missile defense system in all turbojet aircraft use in schedule air carrier service .
while this legislation be still under consideration , Homeland Security appropriation designate $ 60 million in fy2004 and $ 61 million in fy2005 to fund a program to develop and test prototype missile countermeasure system for commercial aircraft base on exist military technology .
it be anticipate that at the conclusion of this program , in January 2006 , the Department of Homeland Security will be able to provide a detailed analysis of the suitability of such system for use to protect commercial passenger aircraft .
Curt 2005-01-01T22:44:00 American Future have a link up to a article write in yesterday Houston Chronicle .
it describe how the european government look to be change they tune in regard to President Bush .
why you ask ?
but there be arguably more to this sea change than just a grumpy acceptance of the status quo .
from a european perspective , three thing be make it easier to warm to the Bush White House .
one be the death of Yasser Arafat .
no issue divide Europe and the United States more keenly than the israeli-palestinian dispute .
for the last few year , Europeans have criticize Bush for fail to put enough pressure on Israel to get out of the occupied territory and for refuse to deal with Arafat .
that another reason why I respect Bush so much , he refusal to acknowledge that windbag terrorist Arafat .
May he rot in hell .
but since Arafat 's death , Europeans and Americans have be able to find common ground : support Ariel Sharon 's withdrawal from Gaza , put pressure on Israel to let the Palestinians hold election and , covertly , back Mahmoud Abbas to become the next palestinian leader .
a second reason be Europe 's grow worry about islamic terrorism .
the murder in November of Theo van Gogh , a provocative dutch filmmaker , at the hand of a islamic militant have be call Europe 's 9/11 .
though the two event be obviously not fully comparable , it be certainly true that american conservative , such as Francis Fukuyama and Bernard Lewis , have find a wider audience recently for the idea that radical Islam be inimical to european tradition of tolerance .
you mean those radical muslim can be kinda nasty sometimes ?
get outta here ... keep do business like the coward in Spain and they will more then likely have they very own 9/11 to cry about .
the third force be the reappearance , albeit in a milder form , of the threat that keep the trans-atlantic alliance together for half a century .
the russian bear be growl again .
the ukrainian election -- complete with its kgb-style poisoning of the opposition leader and heavy-handed electoral fraud -- have remind european diplomat of Vladimir V. Putin 's determination to control he `` near abroad . ''
they should be very worried about this item , I believe Putin be slowly slide Russia back to what it once be .
hopefully we government be not asleep at the wheel with this situation either .
there be a personal edge to all this .
just as the snooty continental eventually come to admire the gormless Hollywood actor , there be a grudging willingness to rethink some prejudice about the inarticulate texan .
many european leader once swallow the Michael Moore version of history : that Bush be a ignorant interloper who steal the White House .
he thump re-election , however , show that he represent a large body of conservative american opinion .
in short , Europeans be get use to the idea that it be not Bush who be the exception , but the U.S. itself that be exceptional -- and that if they want to deal with this exceptional superpower they need to humor it rather than rile it .
strangely enough , this have be Tony Blair 's strategy all along ; it be rapidly become the continent 's strategy , too .
could not of end that article any better myself .
get use to it France , we be not go nowhere .
Curt 2005-02-03T19:53:00 interesting article at the Accuracy in Media website yesterday .
it seem a suppose straight shooting reporter with NBC be take money to fund a book that be so pro-united nation that its almost sickening to read .
-lrb- hat tip clear and present -rrb- one of the hottest story around , the U.N. corruption scandal , NBC have be out to lunch .
why ?
its U.N. reporter have be on the payroll of the U.N. lobby .
Linda Fasulo , the U.N. correspondent for NBC News and MSNBC , have write a pro-u.n. book , a Insider 's Guide to the U.N. , which read like the U.N. pay for it .
actually , the pro-u.n. lobby pay for it .
in a monstrous conflict of interest for a suppose straight news reporter , Fasulo acknowledge Ted Turner 's U.N. Foundation and Better World Campaign for `` they generous financial support '' of she book project .
she also thanks the Rockefeller Brothers Fund `` for help to fund the project . ''
the book be about `` one of the finest and most important govern body , '' she say .
of the U.N. chief , she write like a school girl with a crush .
`` it be hard to find anyone who can mount a serious criticism of -lsb- kofi -rsb- Annan 's performance as Secretary General , '' she claim .
he performance be so `` impressive '' that she wonder if a `` cult of personality '' have rise up around he .
one U.S. official be report to be `` astonish by just how good a Secretary General Kofi Annan have be . ''
yup , you read that right .
Kofi 's performance be soooooo impressive .
gag .
guess the democrat have they own Armstrong conspiracy to deal with .
why would a NBC reporter -lrb- who also report on the U.N. for National Public Radio -rrb- take money from the U.N. lobby ?
perhaps because longtime NBC News anchor Tom Brokaw put he stamp of approval on the UNA-USA and BCUN by act as master of ceremony at they 2001 global leadership dinner .
not surprisingly , Brokaw be list on the Fasulo book jacket as say it be a `` must-read . ''
another endorsement of the book come from Barbara Crossette , former New York Times bureau chief at the U.N. who now write for U.N. Wire , a Ted turner-funded online news service that cover the U.N. .
a fascinating part of the book be how Fasulo manage to gloss over Annan 's role in the 1994 genocide in Rwanda .
she try to blame the U.S. and other member of the Security Council for not send enough troops to stop it .
she admit , however , that , `` the Rwanda massacre occur while Annan be U.N. Undersecretary General for peacekeeping , '' and that `` after he become sg -lsb- Secretary General -rsb- , Annan commission a report to examine what have happen and suggest remedy . ''
later , `` Annan accept responsibility for fail to act more quickly , '' she write .
but responsibility for what ?
the truth be that , as director of U.N. peacekeeping , Annan personally refuse request to authorize U.N. peacekeeper in Rwanda to seize weapon and prevent genocide .
writer and author Philip Gourevitch have describe in detail how , three month before the genocide , Major General Romeo Dallaire , the commander of several thousand U.N. troops in Rwanda , send a fax to Kofi Annan 's office , say he have receive evidence from a rwandan government informant that genocide be be plan .
the informant offer to help U.N. force in raiding the government stockpile to be use in the genocide campaign .
all that the informant want in return be protection for himself and he family .
but the general needed U.N. authorization to conduct such a raid and save life .
he ask for that approval but the answer come back in a now-infamous `` genocide fax '' from Annan 's office .
it deny authorization for the mission and tell he that he should turn the information provide by the confidential witness over to the rwandan government which be plan the genocide !
the result be that the information dry up and the genocide take place .
yup , good ole Kofi tell this poor guy to give the secret info over to the very government that be plan the genocide .
what a great guy he be be not he .
or how about the ongoing prostitution that be go on in the Congo ?
now the report come out today on the oil for Food scandal .
yeah ... this guy be such a good sg .
Eff he .
the article end with the following : in a April 30 , 2001 , Washington Times column , Nat Hentoff note that the media have devote `` scant mention '' to the `` plain fact that it be Mr. Annan , when he be head of the United Nation 's peacekeep office , who could have prevent the slaughter of 800,000 Tutsis and they sympathizer in Rwanda in 1994 . ''
it be true , Hentoff say , that the U.N. issue a report in 1999 that acknowledge , to some extent , its role in the killing .
but for five and a half year , he note , Annan `` refuse to accept any responsibility for the rwandan holocaust until Mr. Gourevitch and other reveal that less than 5,000 U.N. troops could have stop the killing if Mr. Annan have not close he eye . ''
it be astonishing that a journalist for NBC New would close she eye to Annan 's role .
but that be what she be apparently pay to do .
Curt 2005-02-17T12:37:00 get ta hate the french , I really do not think there be anything good you can say about the french anymore , they be a waste and a joke of a government .
apparently Bush want the European 's to classify Hezbollah as a terrorist group .
make sense right ?
as rise instability in Lebanon increase tension in the Middle East , the Bush administration be argue with european government over whether they should designate the lebanon-based shiite group Hezbollah a terrorist organization , american and european official say .
the United States be already step up pressure on Iran and Syria , Hezbollah 's main sponsor .
the american rift with Syria deepen this week , with suspicion that Syria might have be behind the assassination of Lebanon 's former prime minister in Beirut on Monday .
... in the past two week , the official say , France have rebuff appeal by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the israeli foreign minister , Silvan shalom , to list Hezbollah as a terrorist organization , which would prevent it from raise money in Europe through charity group .
the United States have long call Hezbollah a terrorist organization , but the french , american and european official say , have oppose do so , and argue that make such a designation now would be unwise , give the new turbulence in Lebanon .
israeli and american official say that the palestinian president , Mahmoud Abbas , have tell they that he , too , regard Hezbollah as a destructive force in the Middle East , one determine to undermine peace talk by support militant group that attack Israelis .
Got ta love that .
the palestinian president admit that Hezbollah be a bunch of f-wad terrorist but the French do not agree ... no joke .
the Europeans be not solidly oppose to list Hezbollah as a terrorist group , the official say .
the Netherlands , Italy and Poland support the Bush administration 's view , several official say , while Germany and Britain believe the issue be moot unless the french change they mind .
one european diplomat say other country be `` hide behind '' France on the issue .
... a european diplomat say the issue of call Hezbollah a terrorist organization be discuss in Brussels on Wednesday at a meeting of the Clearing House , a unit of the European Union that meet in confidential session to review terrorist activity in Europe .
the group could reach no consensus , the diplomat say .
`` nothing be go to change on Hezbollah because we do not have a agreement among the member state , '' the diplomat say .
`` that do not mean we will not get a consensus .
I know the Americans be impatient , but the European Union have 25 state , and these thing take time . ''
some of those interview try to make it sound as if the reason they be hesitant to go along with Bush be because of the situation in Lebanon .
but as the Captain point out , it probably have more to do with Iran : I suspect the true reason for the reluctance come not from the `` delicate '' nature of lebanese politics , but from the relationship between Hezbollah and the Iranians .
the EU have try for the past two year to appease the iranian mulla into give up they nuclear-weapons ambition to little avail .
they do not want to rock the boat now by attempt to starve out the mulla ' terror agent that conduct the proxy attack against Israel that Iran can not afford to do itself openly .
they do not learn from Hitler 's Germany I guess , they try to appease that guy too .
this whole thing just remind I how corrupt and useless France be .
they will forever be know as that corrupt and coward in my opinion .
Read from On High , Dhimmi Watch , Cranky Neocon , and my View of the world for more .
Nicolae Mischie , authoritarian leader of a district organization of the main opposition party , have be jail .
Romania vote in the last December , oust the so-called socialist party psd -lrb- Social-Democratic Party -rrb- .
psd manage to keep a stronghold in poor rural area , with the help of people like Mischie .
they combine blackmail , use they right of decision regard the public fund for local leader oppose PSD , and strong seduction of the uneducated mass , in a marvelous way .
E.g. , Mischie , who talk like a idiot , get a phd in history .
he paper be on a political personality of the 19th century and Mischie buy the house where he paper 's subject live .
maybe he try to invest in he paper , maybe he believe sincerely in he admiration for the poor innocent dead guy and he ability of earn phd , but use a big car and living in a big house be sign for the mass that the man be a invaluable and irreplaceable leader .
another misleading sign be he position as a University professor - he be teach mostly at private university , which be still way to buy diploma here in Romania .
local leader do they job , but national leader , pressure tv station to lie , associate with old communist ex-president Ion Iliescu , fail to win in big city .
psd be build a strategy for the 4 year to come and they be go to elect a leader .
it be know that communist leader die in office -lrb- as judge of the U.S. Supreme Court -rrb- and Ion Iliescu will not be different .
all the leader that express different point of view will be exclude from the party , that be the untold truth that romanian media seem to hide or not conceive yet .
Mischie be right to criticize the national leader , because PSD get a good share in the election in he area .
but Mischie be wrong , because he do that while in vacation in Switzerland , where you can not go if you earn 20k $ a year .
the new power have nothing to do , but let the policeman do what they should be do year ago .
iliescu and nastase , ex-president and ex-prime minister , be now leave only with the leadership of the party and hold this illusory authority .
if Mischie would not take he chance on they , he would still be free , with the help of the weak and weaken string Iliescu might still pull .
zeyad 2004-11-08t19:42:06 the interim government declare a state of emergency in Iraq exclude the kurdish region for 60 day , accord to the National Security Law introduce last August which state that emergency law can be declare in the country for a period no more than 60 day provide a serious threat against iraqi national security be recognise by the interim government .
obviously , this be a necessary step that should have be take at least two month ago .
suicide bombing and guerrilla attack carry out by insurgent and foreign terrorist base around Baghdad have escalate to alarming level particularly during Ramadan .
Deputy governor of Diyala along with several council member from Ba ` quba be ambush and kill in Latifiya south of Baghdad , a area which have supposedly be ` clear ' from insurgent a couple of week ago .
four suicide attack in Samarra , also a recently ` liberate ' area , against National Guard unit and the governorate building .
Zarqawi 's group claim responsibility for the attack .
three police station in Haditha , a small town west of Ramadi , be assault by group of insurgent .
some 30 policeman be capture , tie up and execute in cold blood against the wall follow a confrontation which last two hour .
Zarqawi 's group , again , claim responsibility .
a full-scale military operation against Fallujah , which be apparently underway already , seem to be the government 's ` final solution ' .
I be not optimistic to the outcome , especially when significant civilian casualty be unavoidable .
note , that I be not suggest a peaceful or political solution would work either in these area .
insurgent west of Baghdad have quite obstinately make it clear that nothing but full control of the country , or at least the Anbar governorate , will satisfy they .
they have refuse to participate in the political process , they have repeatedly announce they intention to boycott the election and to disrupt they in other area , and they do not recognise the government or any other authority in the country beside themselves .
the demand of the Fallujah negotiant from the government week ago be obscene and they clearly reflect the overt sectarianism and regionalism of the armed group in the area .
the demand be not release to the iraqi public at the time for unkown reason but they have leak out day ago .
here be just a few of they : - a clear timetable for the withdrawal of foreign occupation force -lrb- fair enough -rrb- .
- Immediate withdrawal of US and iraqi security force from the Anbar governorate and the handover of security responsibility to former army officer from Anbar .
- the appointment of minister from the Anbar governorate to the ministry of Interior , Defense , Oil and Finance .
- the removal of certain official -lrb- most of they from Shi'ite Islamic party such as Ibrahim Al-Ja ` farus -rrb- from governmental position .
- the complete return of ba'athist , army officer , Republican Guards , Mukhabarat , intelligence and security personnel to they former position .
- the removal of shi'ite edhan -lrb- call for prayer -rrb- from official television and radio program .
- income of shi'ite sacred shrine should be return under the control of the Ministry of Endowments and Religious Affairs .
these last two demand have be allegedly add by Sheikh Harith Al-Dhari -lrb- head of the Association of muslim scholar -rrb- and be say to have be a major reason behind the failure of negotiation with the government .
Iraqis here in the south be shock to hear of these demand and sectarian tension be on the rise .
it scare I to see the reaction of people around I whenever Fallujah be mention .
the director of a primary health care clinic be remark the other day that `` Fallujah should be burn upon its resident and then raze to the ground .
they be the son of mu'awiya , may Allah curse they all . ''
Sidenote : mu'awiya bin Abi Sufyan be the governor of Syria during the 7th century and he fight Imam Ali bin Abi Talib -lrb- Muhammed 's son-in-law -rrb- over the caliphate after the assassination of Caliph Othman .
he become the first Ummayid Caliph and two decade later , under the caliphate of he son Yazid , Imam Hussein bin Ali -lrb- grandson of Muhammed -rrb- be kill by he army at present day Karbala .
someone hush the director and point out to he that I be Sunni .
he be a bit embarrassed and try to explain that he be refer to Wahhabis and foreign fighter .
it be a bit uncomfortable and I could feel that people be give I furtive glance .
refugee have be pour out of Fallujah over the last few day into Baghdad and the surround area .
the military operation will undoubtly aggravate the humanitarian situation inside the city since there be definitely thousand of family with no place to go .
refugee in Baghdad have confirm the rumour that the ` mujahideen ' be force man from 15-50 year old to stay and that they be threaten with execution if they refuse to carry arm in defense of the town .
Majlis Shura Al-Mujahideen -lrb- the Mujahideen Advisory Council -rrb- be in control of Fallujah and they have distribute a statement invite Arab and foreign -lrb- include american -rrb- media reporter to enter the town and cover the battle .
the statement carry the insignia of Zarqawi 's group Qa'idat Al-Jihad .
everyone be closely watch what the next few day will bring , hope the violence do not spread to the street of Baghdad or other area .
I be still hole up in Basrah but I will try to be on the road as soon as possible .
Mark Backer 2004-11-03t13:00:00 I be 36 year old .
I have be around a while .
I be not 87 or anything , but I have see some thing in my life .
I have initially agree and disagree with different thing over the year , only to have my mind change later .
however , I will never ever change my mind about the idiocy we call Daylight Savings Time .
I google `` Daylight Savings Time '' and I get the follow link : http://webexhibits.org/daylightsaving/ I start read ... the site say thing like `` we have learn to save energy and enjoy sunny summer evening by switch we clock a hour forward in the summer '' and there be no s at the end of savings .
it should be Daylight Saving Time .
my apology to the assclown that invent this idiocy and the goober that perpetuate it in such a ridiculous fashion .
I will concede that `` spring forward '' and `` fall back '' be good way to remember to change the battery in you smoke detector .
however , New year and the fourth of July would do the same thing .
I keep read the website of propoganda and find that the first person to come up with the idea be Benjamin Franklin who do it on behalf of some friend that own oil company -lrb- oil be use in lamp -rrb- .
I assume that , because the idea be dumb and inconvenient , lot of people ignore it .
`` by 1966 , some 100 million Americans be observe DST base on they own local law and custom .
Congress decide to step in to end the confusion and establish one pattern across the country .
the Uniform Time Act of 1966 -lrb- 15 U.S. Code Section 260a -rrb- which be sign into Public Law 89-387 on 12 April 1966 , by President Lyndon Johnson , create Daylight Saving Tim to begin on the last Sunday of April and to end on the last Sunday of October .
any state that want to be exempt from DST could do so by pass a state law .
there be a lot more to this since then , and you can read a lot more it if you want to , but this be what I know : Indiana 's eastern half do not use it .
what be that all about ?
Arizona do not use it because one tribe of Indians stretch into three state .
but those other state DO use it .
Hawaii do not use it at all .
of course , they be closer to Japan than to we , and since Japan do not use it , Hawaii just play along .
-lrb- do you think the hawaiian 's sit around , stare west , just becuase they still do not trust the Japs ? -rrb-
regardless of when I go to bed -lrb- 11pm or 10pm or 9pm -rrb- , I get up at 5:30 and I be fuck exhaust .
how can that be ?
I sleep the same number of hour as I do two week ago , yet I be tire ?
also , I be so hungry I could eat my little tub of Carmex by 10:30 be every day .
I use to eat lunch between 11:30 and noon , but now , eating be all I think about after 10am .
why be that good for I ?
I do not care if America save 1 % of its energy consumption cost during those time .
I be tired , hungry , and I leave for work and get home from work in the dark .
how healthy be that ?
for that matter , I do not care about any of the pro-farming or anti-crime propoganda .
Daylight SAVINGS Time suck !!
now , if you will excuse I , I have to go stalk the lobby for the girl that be bring I my krystal .
order and fight to keep myself from fall asleep in my cube .
Amy ????
- ??
- ??
t15 :39:00 about time you realize Daylight SavingS time be the work of Satan 's minion .
Jassalasca Jape ????
- ??
- ??
t20 :18:00 you would feel comfortable in China , then ; it be the same time everywhere .
Mark Backer 2004-11-08T15:07:00 it be auburn-georgia week , lady and gentleman .
after all the smack talk that be go on for the last 360 day , and all of the game that both team have play and the hope each have for the 2004 season , it be come down to this .
to stay undefeated and alive for a chance at the bcs title game , Auburn must win this Saturday in it be 3:30 est game on CBS against the Georgia Bulldogs .
if they hope to move up from they current number five ranking and keep the hope alive of play in the SEC Title Game in December , Georgia must beat Auburn .
this game be as good as it get .
sure , Auburn 's in-state rival be Alabama , but year in and year out , this game , the Auburn-UGA game , seem like the one that matter more .
I seldom if ever root for Bama , but I always root for UGA to be undefeated when the play Auburn .
the game be big enough already , but it seem even bigger when one or both team have something on the line .
yes , both team have other game leave to play and yes , other team ' result may affect what happen to both of these team , but in just five day , these two team will play the biggest and most important game of they season .
so now it be time for all of the yapping and jawing and talk shit that go with this game .
except I do not do that .
I can not do that .
anytime I try to talk shit , I get all nauseous and worry about what happen not if but when we lose .
I do not know if it be just I or if be this pragmatic be what it mean to be a Auburn fan .
I wonder if deep down this be what it feel like to be a red Sox fan : regardless of where you be or what be happen to you team , deep down you do not just think , you know something bad be go to happen .
anyway , I be fly my flag on my house with pride and I be look forward to the game that , year in and year out , give we the best hit and mo entertaining football play on the highest level .
it be SEC football at it be core .
War Eagle .
anonymous ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :00:00 ball
Mark Backer 2004-11-12T07:07:00 it be now just one day until I hop in the car and head back in time to the loveliest village on the plain ... Auburn , Alabama .
I have not be back since 1994 and when I be talk to my wife about the trip this morning , it seem like a lifetime ago .
hell , it be be half my life since I be in school there and over two third of my adult life , assume that people that know I think my adult life have actually start yet .
anyway , enough nostalgia from I , at least for now .
the wife and I be watch SportsCenter this morning , and Lee Corso , Mark May and Trev Alberts be all pick Auburn to beat Georgia , and the last two be pick they to run the table for the right to play USC for the national championship .
Blurble ... .
then , I open the Atlanta paper this morning , and everything be pro-uga .
I mean , I know it would be , but some of it be even base on fact .
like this beauty : when Auburn and they opponent be both in the top ten , Auburn be 4-6-1 in those game .
Auburn have lose the last three game that fit that scenario .
Blurble ... .
Auburn 's last defeat come at the hand of ... UGA .
Blurble ... Auburn do lead the overall record in the series 51-46-8 .
however , the road team 's record in this series .
at Auburn , UGA be 11-8-2 .
at Athens , Auburn be 17-8 .
this trend be serious in the 80 's , with the road team win about two-third of the time .
the only time this change recently really be when UGA decide to win in they place in 2003 .
thanks dawg .
Blurble ... on the upside , Auburn have score at least 33 point in the last six game .
that be a pretty nice run .
Auburn lead the SEC in score offense , score defense and rush defense .
Auburn be second in the nation in score defense and seventh in pass defense .
Jason Campbell be 3rd in the nation in pass efficiency while David Greene be 10th .
here be a couple of middle of the road stats : Auburn 's Quentin Groves and Georgia 's David Pollack be tie for the SEC sack lead .
here be the biggest for what it be worth stat as far as I be concern : both team be undefeated this year when score first .
Auburn be 8-0 and UGA be 5-0 .
I would say that be the biggest stat right now .
Auburn 's offense be potent and efficient .
UGA 's defense be relentless and contain a couple of the country 's biggest hitter , especially Greg Blue and Odell Thurman .
Auburn 's defense be fast and relentless and the db 's be experienced and big .
UGA 's receiver be leader , with one of they a team captain .
Auburn 's two run back be senior and very experienced and dangerous , bruising back .
UGA 's two back be smaller freshman with less experience , but be dangerous as well .
in my mind , the game be go to turn on a few key point , some obvious and some not .
here go the prediction machine : - turnover -lrb- as always -rrb- will be critical .
- special team play and lack of special team mistake will tell the tale regard field position .
- both team MUST establish the run to be successful .
if Auburn go for 150 between they two back , they be almost impossible to beat .
conversely , Georgia MUST be able to run the ball to set up play action and keep the pressure off of David Greene .
- Mark Richt have prove to be a better on the fly adjustment coach that Tommy Tuberville .
tub be famous for take chance , often unnecessary one .
that history be of concern to I .
while it be okay to try crazy shit when you team be under-rated or a serious underdog , it be important not to give game away when you be the favorite .
play more `` by the book '' and a bit `` closer to the vest '' become the call for the day .
consider all of these factor , I truly believe that this be Auburn 's year .
they may not go undefeated and they may not get into the bcs title game , but they have enough talent , poise and experience to win this game .
Auburn win 31-21 .
and now that I have type that prediction , I may just throw up in my mouth .
War ... Blurble ... Eagle !!
add at 1:28 pm on 11/12/04 ack !!
David Greene be the winningest qb in NCAA division I history !!
and he be 15-1 on the road !!
15-1 on the road ???
UGA win 24-21 Blurble .
Mark Backer 2004-11-17T07:23:00 you know , for the past five day and really for about the past fifteen or twenty day , I have be angry about the bcs ranking and why Auburn be not rank higher and all of that business .
can someone tell I why one of my friend or family member have not smack I because of it ?
I mean , here we be , 10-0 and stare down the barrell of a road game at Tuscaloosa against we hate rival , the Alabama Crimson Tide , and I be bitch about how we better get to play for a national title ?
really ?
you do not have to think back too far to find a similar scenario , only with the shoe firmly on the other foot .
in 1989 , Alabama be 10-0 , number two in the nation and come into Auburn for the first time ever to play at Jordan-Hare Stadium .
all the talk for the week lead up to the game be about `` if Bama 's undefeated , they will play for it all in the Sugar Bowl '' and other crap like that .
well , `` if or when '' never happen because Auburn win 30-20 in one of the greatest iron Bowl game ever , put a end to Bama 's national title hope for the year .
15 year later , the situation 's reverse .
it be Auburn that be undefeated and face the road game at the end of the season .
suddenly , I be about nauseous about this game too .
despite be riddled with injury , Alabama have a ridiculously stout defense , recently rank as the number one defense in the country .
egad .
have all of the bluster and talk show up on the plain as well ?
I only hope that coach Tuberville have be successful at keep he player focus , motivated and think about ONLY the Alabama game .
Mark Backer 2004-11-17t11:07:00 for those of you not from around these part , Linda Schrenko be the state of Georgia 's Superintendant of school .
it seem that in recent year , instead of do the people 's business , good ole Linda have spend she time steal over 600 grand in Federal Education fund .
she use it for various thing , but the favorite be the nine grand she spend on a facelift .
here be a link to the story : link one thing that make I laugh be that she show up at she indictment in a fur coat .
Ummm , be I the only one that learn anything from the Michael Irvin drug trial of the mid 90 's ?
you never ever show up at court , especially face indictment for steal large sum of money , wear a fucking fur coat !!
fake or not , you look like you be rub the common man 's nose in it .
Schrenko be a scumbag and , although she will not get any actual jail time , I hope the fine she plead to be at least as much as what she steal .
otherwise , she be learn nothing .
remember when Michael Milken get bust , he be not force to give up he secret account , and when the fine of 600 million be levy ... he pay it !!
hell , at he zenith , that be what he make in one year !!
`` um ... how much , you honor ?
600 large ?
yeah , lem I just get my checkbook out of my diamond encrust briefcase . ''
Schrenko steal 20 time what Martha Stewart do , and I bet she will not see the wrong side of a jail cell door , and that be sad .
because it be people like Schrenko for which jail be specifically design ...
Mark Backer 2004-11-19T10:02:00 Well , it be mid-morning on the East coast and I be sit here run number thru my head try to figure out what be go to happen in the Iron Bowl , which be just over 29 hour away .
the game be be play in Tuscaloosa , which should be a advantage to Alabama .
however , in the two time the game have be play in Bryant Denny Stadium , Auburn have win .
Alabama have one of the stingiest defens in the country , and be rank number one in overall defense as recently as last week .
conversely , Auburn have one of the most potent and balanced offensive attack in the nation .
also , I do not think Bama have face a attack with two great runner , a great line , a poise qb and good receiver and a tight end as well .
Bama be miss it be start offensive backfield from the start of the season .
the fact that they have win six game be a testament to the coaching and heart of the player .
Alabama simply can not throw the football , which be a good thing , because Auburn 's defensive backfield be second to none .
Bama can run the ball however .
unfortunately for they , with no passing game to keep the defense honest , Auburn will probably stack nine in the box , play man on the corner , and dare Bama to run , and I do not think they will be able to do it .
Auburn be also 9-0 when they score first .
the Tuberville way be to get one quick and early to get you crowd into it if you be at home and to quiet the other team 's crowd if you be on the road .
you can never tell what be go to happen in rivalry game .
in this exact game 15 year ago , Bama come into Auburn # 2 in the country , undefeated at 10-0 and look for yet another national championship .
they be summarily trounce 30-20 in a game in which the score be closer than the actual game .
that could very well happen Saturday .
I always tell people that the Georgia game matter more to I than the Bama game .
I live in Georgia , and lose that game affect I much more directly than lose the Alabama game .
that say , when kickoff time come , you remember all the reason that you hate Alabama and they dumbass haircut and they detergent and toilet paper and they houndstooth hat and they `` Bear this '' and `` Bear that , '' and everything else that go along with it .
this be not a football game , and it be not two drunken cousin fight at a family reunion .
this be brother against brother after one sleep with the other 's wife and then brag about it .
it be that serious .
however , when it be all say and do , I just do not think Alabama have the horse to stand up to what I believe be go to be enormous defensive pressure .
if Auburn take care of the ball and execute , this game should not be as close as some think .
my call : Auburn 37 Alabama 13 now pass the Tums .
I do not feel so well ... War Eagle !!
Mark Backer 2004-11-28T16:41:00 we have be on the go since about noon on Wednesday and even longer in the wife 's case .
she start clean about a week before the holiday and clean for about two week right thru the holiday .
we spend Friday do a little shopping and get to bed early , but Saturday be busy with football watch .
the irish suck .
not as a people , but as a football team .
the look good for 15 minute , but then they get run over by Matt Leinert and USC .
I have no beef with usc be number one , but Oklahoma be nowhere close to number two in the country , and I be sick of the pollster who only look at east coast score instead of watch tape of the game .
Auburn have trail in exactly two game this year , and have give up less than 9.5 point per game .
Oklahoma have give up bucketload of point , but still get some mystery respect for it .
-lrb- I know many of you may be tire of my rant about this , have no fear .
it will all be over by next Sunday night or Monday morning .
at that point , we be either in or fucked and either way , I be write about it once then , and that will be it -rrb- .
anyway , we decide to go ahead and get a fake tree yesterday , and we get that bad boy put up yesterday and be decorate it today .
we also get all of we exterior light up today , mark the first time this family have ever have they decorating do by Thanksgiving Sunday .
big kudos to the missus .
it feel weird not watch racing today , but it will get easier and then , come January 10th or so , there will be test news and driver signing news and we will be on the back side of the remain 84 day until the Daytona 500 .
until tomorrow kid , war eagle !!
Mark Backer 2004-12-02T07:11:00 apparently Jason Giambi , recently the non-playing and `` sick '' first baseman of the New York Yankees , admit to a Grand Jury that he `` inject anabolic steroid and human growth hormone -lrb- hgh -rrb- as recently as 2003 .
and he apparently get they thru BALCO and -lrb- surprise -rrb- the same guy that be Barry Bonds ' trainer , once Greg Anderson .
since that Grand jury testimony be give , Giambi repeatedly deny use any steroid , hgh , or anything else to anyone and everyone that would listen .
Jason 's brother Jeremy also admit to the grand jury that he use steroid .
now , Barry be deny he be do any steroid and Gary Sheffield 's deny he be do any steroid , but one by one , the lesser -lrb- and bigger -rrb- player in this deal be see they testimony come into the the public eye where they admit that they do do steroid .
it seem that anyone associate with this special `` trainer '' Greg Anderson be come up dirty .
it be a good thing that Major League Baseball have such a tough steroid policy , or this story may not have be bring to we attention .
-lrb- cough ... cough ... sarcasm ... cough -rrb- .
never mind if the steroid and human growth hormone be illegal in baseball or not .
they be illegal to use in the United States .
I want to know where the Federal criminal charge against all party involve be .
anyone ?
the fact that these guy -lrb- sheff , the Giambis , Marion Jones , Bonds and many other -rrb- be run around deny this shit and act like Pete Rose do any time someone ask he about gambling -lrb- get uber defensive , deny it implicitly and act like the person ask have personally assault he -rrb- be appalling .
these clown be mess with people 's career by insist they be be lie about , yet when it turn out the reporter be not lie and the athlete be , nothing be do .
I have never deny that Barry Bonds be a special and gifted athlete .
whether it be steroid , hgh , crank , lighter fluid or antifreeze he be use , be able to perform at this level for this length of time defy logic or reason .
that be why it be a shame that , in the final analysis , all of bond ' number and accomplishment be go to be ignore and lump into the statement `` yeah , but he be on steroid . ''
it be a pity he and the other be too dumb to see that .
and now , just so you do not think that every entry in this blog will be like the one above , here be a great joke I read today : a man take he Rottweiler to the vet and say , `` my dog 's cross-eyed , be there anything you can do for he ? ''
`` well , '' say the vet , `` let 's have a look at he . ''
so he pick the dog up and examine he eye , then check he tooth .
finally , the vet say `` I be go to have to put he down . ''
`` what ?
because he be cross-eyed ? ''
`` no , because he be really heavy . ''
I will be break down the SEC championship game either later today or tomorrow , so I expect you all to be plant firmly on the edge of you seat wait for that one .
War Eagle everybody !
Mark Backer 2004-12-06t07:33:00 I be have a difficult time put my feeling into word right now , so bear with I .
First of all , I want to congratulate the Auburn Football team for do what no other Auburn football team have do ; go 12-0 .
they also win they first outright SEC title since 1987 and win they first SEC title since the conference impliment the Championship game format .
a year ago , the program be in disarray and the coach be one poorly execute plane trip away from be fire by a over-zealous and too empower booster with a fat checkbook .
since that day , the team be undefeated and have win 14 game in a row .
they have now beat four team that be in the top 15 at the time the game be play , and two of those game be win away from Jordan-Hare Stadium .
on championship weekend , the big three all play .
USC win by five over a shitty UCLA team with a 6-5 record , and that be thanks in part to a official who blow dead a clear and obvious fumble that would have be return for a UCLA touchdown .
Oklahoma play in it be conference title game against a four-loss Colorado team that can not throw the ball .
the result be a 40 plus point beatdown , but what do anyone expect ?
Auburn play 15th rank Tennessee and be attempt to do one of the toughest thing to do in college football : beat a team twice in the same year .
with the exception of a 15 yard shank punt and a punt snap that Kody Bliss miss while have a apparent thrombosis , Auburn lead 21-7 at the half and have hold UT to 46 yard of offense .
while the Auburn run game be hold up , Jason Campbell throw it all over the ball field and , when he receiver be cover , he run for yardage on he own .
this despite several late hit to the head , low hit at he knee and ankle , and various other assault outside the realm of good sportsmanship .
Tennessee score on a pass play that be incorrectly rule a touchdown , since the ball clearly touch the turf , and that be where the momentum of the game change .
I think it be also at that point that the scoreboard begin to reflect Auburn 's last title hope die as the oklahoma-colorado score would have begin show the beat-down that be occur .
Auburn be tie 21-21 and in jeapordy of lose it most important game ever , but senior QB Jason Campbell would have none of it .
Auburn win go away 38-28 , and the only place the game look close be on the scoreboard .
I can not believe that a undefeated SEC team be not play for a title , but I guess we can thank Jeff Sagarin and the other dick that keep vote USC number one to make up for what happen to they last year .
all I know be that they better think that way next year , because it be Auburn that get screw this year .
and what be better be that Auburn get to play one of the three hottest team in the country in my opinion .
Virginia Tech be talented , very athletic and one of the most well coach team in the country and they will come to play on January 3rd .
I hope we kid can shake off this travesty and focus on make the pollster look like idiot .
maybe a Oklahoma win in a butt-ugly game and a great Auburn performance could help .
what be the definition of pragmatic ?
go undefeated and chant `` we be number two !! ''
War Eagle
Mark Backer 2004-12-16t06:56:00 I be read ESPN this morning when I stumble across the story where Kobe Bryant say he would like to sit down with Shaq and apologize to he for `` involve he in my trouble . ''
Bryant also say that he think December 25th `` sound like a good day to I to kind of talk to he and tell he I never mean in any kind of way to bring any of he personal business out . ''
you see , after Kobe 's world fall apart because he could not resist bang the crazy white towel clerk at he hotel , he need a out .
he buy he wife a four million dollar ring and get some tattoo that say how much he love she , but he need to do more to attract attention away from himself .
so he tell the media that he should have do what Shaq always do , just pay the woman to shut up .
Kobe also allege that O'neal have pay upward of one million dollar in this way as hush money over the year .
Shaq have deny it from the beginning , but that be not really the point .
it be no secret that a large number of the NBA 's `` star '' be not exactly star-worthy .
good player or not , guy like Kemp and Bryant and Iverson and the entire Blazers team be just not very nice or good people .
if the league will tolerate it , what do I care ?
but the real issue be this .
Kobe 's Lakers will play Shaq 's Miami Heat on ... that be right ... December 25th .
so the real motivation for Kobe here be not to mend fence or admit he be wrong to involve any other person in he own little pit of woe .
it be to find some sort of way to keep the 340-pound shaquille and he teammate from beat the ever-loving shit out of Kobe for 48 pain-filled minute on Christmas Day .
I can not tell you the number of way that Kobe Bryant make I sick .
despite he slick talk and he nice diction , he be nothing but a cheater and a liar and a punk .
I hardly watch any NBA game because the league and most of it be player sicken I , but I have have December 25th circle on my calendar since the day after Shaq sign with the Heat .
that be the day that Shaq will take a million dollar or more out of Kobe 's punk-ass .
Mark Backer 2004-12-17T16:39:00 Sorry I have not be post much lately .
we have be so damned busy with the holiday -lrb- that be what we call December at we house -rrb- that I just have not have time .
I read a funny joke today and I think I would share it with you .
one of my fellow egger post it , so Chet , here 's you credit : a traveler be drive through Arkansas when he lose he way and get off the main highway .
as he drive by , he see row and row of pigsty and pigpen and pig run in field and pig wallow in mud .
suddenly , he eye catch something really strange .
he do a double take , mutter to himself and then look a third time .
he wonder if he have see correctly - it look like a pig with a wooden leg !
he find the lane to the farm and drive up into the farmyard , where he be meet by the farmer .
`` excuse I , '' the traveler say .
`` I be just drive by and look at all you pig , and I notice something that I just have to stop and ask about .
tell I , do I see right ?
be there really a pig out there with a wooden leg ? ''
the farmer smile .
`` oh , that would be old Caesar you see .
he be the finest pig a man could ever hope to have - and smart !
well , let I tell you a little about that pig .
you see that barge down there on the river ?
that be a mining dredge , take out platinum ore .
old Caesar sniff out the vein and show we how to set it up .
now that dredge bring I in about $ 120,000 every year .
`` there be another thing , too , a little more personal .
one night a couple of year ago I get to drinking and I guess I have more than I should have .
I pass out drunk , fall down and knock over a lamp .
that start a fire in the house and old Caesar smell the smoke .
he come in the back door , get the wife and kid out , rouse I up and get I out .
`` there be no question about it - that night old Caesar save all we life and you know that be not the sort of thing a man be go to forget too easily . ''
`` why , '' the traveler say , `` this be all amazing !
I have never hear of a pig like this before !
this be fantastic !
but tell I , how do he get that wooden leg ?
be he in a wreck or something ? ''
the farmer laugh and say , `` well , naturally , when you have a pig that smart , you do not want to eat he all at one time ! ''
Mark Backer 2004-12-20T09:19:00 while it be entertaining , that be not why I be post about it .
I do not normally post about pro football , but what I see deserve a ranting or two , and I suspect it be go to get many more in the day and week to come .
with 4:41 leave in the fourth quarter and the Packers down by 11 , Favre hit Robert Ferguson with a 31 yard strike near the left hash mark .
come from the other direction , Jacksonville DB Donovin Darius unloaded chin high on Ferguson with a vicious clothesline .
remarkably , Ferguson hold on to the ball , despite be disjoin from he helmet on the hit .
after many minute lie motionless on the field , Ferguson be finally remove via stretcher , give a thumb up to the crowd on the way out .
the Packers go on to lose the game , but that be not the story here .
this be not one of the stage stiff-armed clothesline you see in professional wrestling broadcast .
this be a vicious , arm cock and swing clothesline that literally could have tear Ferguson 's head off of he body .
the play be immediately flag , and moment later it be announce that Darius have be eject , much to the crowd 's delight .
one sidenote here be that , despite they rabid fandom and the situation , not one thing be throw at the offend player as he leave the field .
it would have be easy to bathe he in beer or snowball or battery as he leave , but the Packer fan be classier than that .
to a person , they act with class , use they voice and not projectile to express they displeasure .
this be the most vicious and blatantly dirty play I have see in the NFL since Jim McMahon be body slam to the ground in the mid 80 's about five seconds after he have release a pass .
and Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio and Darius have the nerve to vociferously argue with official about Darius ' ejection from the game .
I do not care what anyone say about `` you can not judge intent . ''
Darius ' intent be to dismember , injure or even kill Ferguson .
the more I see the replay , the sicker it make I feel .
the league must take action , and it must be swift and sure .
I be talk about a four game suspension that include the playoff if necessary .
in this day and age of bigger , stronger and faster player , injury be go to happen accidentally all of the time .
there be simply no room for the kind of play that result in Ferguson 's injury .
Paul Tagliabue must give word to all of he employee that action like this will not be tolerate .
maybe that will tell the Jaguars , Darius and player like he that this kind of head-hunting will not be tolerate in the NFL .
if not , I fully expect the Packers and many other team to handle this matter `` on the field '' with Darius be the target of similar attack by tight end and offensive lineman .
Mark Backer 2005-01-03t08:29:00 I be on vacation from December 23rd until today , January 3rd .
it be tough to come back to work after be go for ten day , but I think it be tougher to stay home and try to do what my wife do every day , which be work , raise we daughter , keep the house , cook , and everything else .
thanks for everything babe .
now , the thing I forget to tell you be that when I walk out of the office to go home on the 23rd , there be a pink post it on my car .
it say : `` hi !
I scrape you bumper .
sorry !
: -lrb- call I Joyce _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 770-239-x x x x 12/23/04 really .
include the sad face .
I be happy she leave the note and take responsibility for it , but what in the fuck be go on that every couple of month I be take car to the shop for thing that be not my fault ?
this be the third incident in 15 month , and two of the three involve other folk hit my park car !!
I know my 20 year clean record would end sometime , but do the karma god have to beat I over the head with a shovel about it ?
so today I have Enterprise pick I up at 7:15 , which be great .
I be worry about be late to work and , as it turn out , I be only 16 minute late .
I be give a choice between a taurus and a impala .
I take the impala .
I make the wrong choice .
it drive like shit .
so much for my GM loyalty .
they make great truck and suv 's , but they sedan suck ass .
I will return this piece of shit on Friday , only to rent another vehicle Monday morning while we take the wife 's car to the shop to get she 1400 buck worth of damage repair .
I actually do not know if it will be Monday yet , as I didn ' twant to ruin Joyce 's New year by give she the bad news .
I plan to call she this morning and tell she the total , complete with my rental car for a week .
I will let you know how it go .
happy New year .
peace on earth .
Goodwill towards all man , and keep away from my fucking vehicle !!
Mark Backer 2005-01-05T15:26:00 The college football season be finally over .
on one hand , I be a bit sad because year like this only happen for Auburn every 15 or 20 year , so it be a little disappointing .
on the other hand , this work out about as well as it could .
if you ask I at the beginning of the year if I would rather be 8-3 and play in the liberty bowl or 12-0 with a chance to win the Sugar Bowl , go 13-0 and finish second , I would say hell yeah to the latter .
the fact that pundit put OU ahead of Auburn base on they out of conference schedule be tougher than ours be laughable now .
in the end , play Bowling Green over we play the Citadel do not make the Sooners much better .
man , I have see softer takedown on cop .
USC come on to the field , give up a td , then decide to make choke-lahoma they collective bitch , and they do just that .
38-10 at the half mean that I do not even have to hear that die hyena Ashlee `` no , I be the one with dark hair and no boob '' Simpson butcher yet another song on tv .
hell , I read it on Fark this morning .
Hooray for big first half beating that get I a extra hour of sleep .
we might not have win , but we would not have let Leinert go long on we all night either .
we db 's would have have something to say about that .
and , it turn out that when play a decent team , OU can not do shit on offense .
that be just plain terrible .
Jason White look like Jason Voorhees out there , stomp around get catch from every direction any time he do not hand of to Peterson for a three yard loss .
in five year , Oklahoma have play in four huge game , and lose three of they ... badly .
that must feel like be a Sox fan before this year , I would imagine .
anyway , I feel great .
think about this .
a year ago , Tuberville be one reporter 's abililty to find a out of place airplane in Ohio away from be fire before the Alabama game .
then , the ad and president get can , a booster start down the long road to shun-ville , and Tuberville keep smile and say the right thing .
he talk he two run back and two stellar db 's into staying , then knock out 15 straight win and sign one of those super iron-clad contract that will pay he 14 million over seven year , and if Auburn even think ... think about let he go , they owe he every penny .
I do not even think there be a morality clause .
he could have sex with a endanger bald Eagle , and they would still have to pay he .
and that be the way it should be .
meanwhile , Auburn fan can spend the next six month say `` yeah , but we would have do this '' or `` we be 13-0 , win the sec , beat five top ten team , three of they on the road , and become the only undefeated SEC team in the bcs 's history to not play for the title . ''
and coincidentally , Oklahoma 's play in it this year , last year , and in 2000 .
you win in 2000 , but you get punk the last two year , and last year you get to play for the title even though you do not even win you conference .
you get embarass by Kansas State and LSU last year , and humiliate this year .
but the little 12 be sooo much better than the SEC .
that be why you play a four-loss team for you conference title this year .
and , consider the bcs be run by the head of the big 12 , it be no wonder you get the benefit of the doubt .
do not think so ?
how about the fact that only two team that do not win they conference have ever play for the national title ?
you and Nebraska in 2001 .
oh , the other thing you two big 12 team have in common be that you get you ass kick on the sport 's biggest stage .
so yes , we be disappointed .
but all you can do be play the schedule in front of you .
Auburn do that with class and dignity , they win every game , face down every challenge , and make every Auburn fan in the country and the world proud .
War Eagle !!
now , can someone get the Auburn cheerleader some of those USC sweater ?
Meow !
Mark Backer 2005-01-05T16:32:00 much like the `` I tell you so be '' everyone be throw at the UGA basketball program after they hiring and subsequent firing of the Harricks , folk around the Buckeye state have to be have similar thought .
it seem that ad and frequent `` no we do not '' Ohio State front man Andy Geiger be `` retire '' after 11 year at the helm .
maybe it be I , but I be guess Andy 's tired of put on tv makeup and go on the news lie about what he or Tressel know about they athlete in general and they football program in particular .
it seem that Maurice Clarrett-gate just be not go away .
two year ago , everyone be say `` shame on you , Maurice .
you should have know better . ''
now , it seem like most folk be say `` Shame on you both Andy and Jim .
you both should have know better . ''
allegation have come to light that several OSU player receive illegal benefit include cash , access to car , etc. .
now , I do not expect the ad and coach to know everything , but when a player be drive a brand new car every couple of week or month , well , somebody ought to jot a memo and get to the bottom of that .
it should not surprise Buckeye fan either , since Tressel have similar problem at Youngstown State , and leave a wake of controversy behind himself there as well , include -lrb- surprise -rrb- illegal benefit include cash , car , grade fix , etc. .
Geiger be also tire from say `` we do not do anything wrong '' about he basketball program .
of course , it be discover that he man 's basketball coach have directly give six grand to a yugoslavian recruit , but that be just he stipend for travel and coach Jim O'Brien be just have a problem with the currency exchange rate ... right Andy ?
I only hope that the NCAA will do something they rarely do : make a good sound decision and take away Ohio State 's national title from January 2003 .
it seem they have a very important and very ineligible player that season , and maybe many .
I would hate to give another title to Thugtown Miami , but I would give it to Alabama before I would think it be okay for Ohio State to keep .
Mark Backer 2005-02-17T06:47:00 would it make a noise and if it do , would anyone south of Boston give a shit ?
Wednesday , Commissioner Gary Bettman announce the cancellation of the 2004-2005 nhl season .
as if everyone do not already know that be the case .
shame on the nhl and shame on the player ' association for not get a deal do , but I put much more of the blame on the owner as this `` negotiation '' come down to the wire .
I understand that the league be lose less money by not play than it would have by have a season this year .
I also understand that when push come to shove , the player give in and accept a salary cap .
okay , the side be about 7 million per team apart , but could not they just say `` alright , let 's split that in half and play hockey ? ''
I mean holy Christ people , two kid argue over 10 buck would work it out that way .
why be this any different ?
the nhl 's primary goal be to get a salary cap approve by the player , and they finally do .
and what do the nhl do when that momentus event occur ?
they leave the negotiating table .
Gary Bettman be a mindless troll and the professional sport commissioner equivalent of Joe Hazelwood and this lockout / strike / cluster fuck be the reef .
the first thing that need to happen be that Bettman and Goodenow -lrb- the player ' association rep -rrb- need to be fire , deport , flog , tar and feathered and finally force to pay for four ticket plus a program , four dog , four beer , and two coke and parking to a game at a nhl arena for every day of the next season so they understand what the fan go thru to see a hockey game .
then , all current contract need to be void by the end of the season in 2006 .
that mean no team would own any player , and the owner would be free to sign whomever they would like use the `` fiscal restraint '' they all drone on and on about all year .
that way , they would only pay as much as they could afford ... right ?
wrong .
those douchebag would end up overspend like every professional sport owner because they can not control themselves .
if Mr. Iginla or Heatley be free agent , for example , owner would bid each other out of they mind , then they would be leave with not enough to get a competetive team .
while the business model in the nhl be certainly flaw and the owner need help , they really need help to protect they from themselves .
and the fact be that without that help , the owner would follow the same path that get they where they be right now anyway .
the biggest issue be this , however .
very few people give one hot shit whether the nhl play another game ever , let alone this season or the next one .
for every cry canuck there be 1,000 or more other who say `` no hockey ?
Huh ... do not even notice . ''
and the last television network interested in carry hockey -lrb- ESPN -rrb- may opt out of televising the nhl next season , mean that all of the team would be in huge trouble , because no tv = no league .
period .
Atlanta lose the Flames 25 year ago because , despite full house every night , it be tv revenue that pay the freight and the Flames have no tv contract .
imagine a entire league with no tv contract .
hell , Major League Soccer and the WNBA DO have a tv contract and no one give a shit about they .
I will say this for the nhl , when they screw up , they screw up huge .
Congrats guy .
you will forever be know as the generation that kill professional hockey in North America .
that will look great on you resume .
Byrne 2004-12-09T14:01:00 Shares of Martha Stewart live Omnimedia , a company whose name be so breathtakingly self-promoting it make I long for the day when every single entity involve in real estate or casino be call Trump , continue to soar ; it rise $ 1.78 , or 7.29 % , on news that the company 's namesake will star in a new tv show once she , er ... get out of prison .
now , I know there have be succesful company that deal with crook -lrb- Warner Communications , which start as a merger between business in the three most mob-influenced industry around , come to mind -rrb- , but it be a gamble and not a business strategy .
the company 's performance be not all that hot even before the CEO go to prison , and until very recently the stock price reflect that .
but this be a one-person company , and at this point it be say the ` Martha ' brand be worth some $ 1.31 billion .
if anything , the value of the brand should decline over time , inasmuch as she be rather , well , mortal .
and she be be convinct of obstruction of justice .
this runup be base on the inexplicable hope that now that the head of the firm and the embodiment of a much-resented brand be no longer do time for lie to the federal government , they will be able to really coin some money .
I just do not know what to say .
muckdog ????
- ??
- ??
t15 :03:00 Martha should do a reality show .
take 10 contestant , and give they a situation : you have company come over for dinner ; you be host a open house ; or , you be host a wedding reception .
then , she just rank they and eliminate one every week .
the stock would really go to the moon on that press release .
Byrne 2004-12-11T18:45:00 scrappy underdog Netflix have its day earlier in the year , when it become one of the hottest stock around -lrb- sport a eye-popping P/E in the high 900 's on the way up , and , thanks to a poor earnings report , over 1,000 on the way down -rrb- .
there be plenty of argument about the future of dvd and video rental , and Netflix represent a pure-play on one of the three dominant hypothesis : I .
that business be o-v-e-r -- between pay-per-view , video-on-demand , pirate movie , high-bandwidth internet broadcast , and the increase availability of other media , it take some faith to see any future for movie rental .
those who do not have the requisite faith will point to these factor as proof that the business be die and the movie business in general will need a pretty significant overhaul before it can make profit .
movie rental be no longer a cheap alternative to other way of view film ; they be the stodgy , expensive way .
there be not any pure-play buy on this theory , but someone who believe it might overweight they portfolio in cable company -- if they purchase any media stock at all .
of course , there have be company whose performance would perfectly mimic the validity of this idea , but Psuedo.com fail without produce a single show , and Broadcast.com be swallow for $ 6 billion by yahoo! , to Yahoo! 's great regret .
II .
not so fast -- it will just go online !
-- anyone who want to counter that argument would probably start by take we back to 1997 , when in term of time use , text be the most popular kind of information online .
at the time , and for year after , people argue that the traditional bookstore would become obsolete .
after all , how could we stand for a rapaciously arborcidal medium like ` book ' or ` newspaper ' when we could transmit the same datum as bit and byte and save on transportation , too ?
as it turn out , of course , Amazon.com , BarnseandNoble.com , and a host of other simply take the bookstore model , attach a 56k modem , and declare themselves the Future .
Netflix be do much the same thing : take the traditional business online to cut cost and boost customer service .
III .
who d'you think you be kid ?
you can not kill movie rental store -- so there be a big difference between movie and book : for book , the retail store be practically the sole medium of distribution ; if you do not sell through they , book will not get sell .
for movie , the video rental store be just one way to get video out there -lrb- though at 45-55 % of studio revenue , it be a much more important one than people think -rrb- .
but give the high valuation ascribe to bricks-and-mortar-and-dead tree bookseller like Barnes and Noble , Borders , and to a much lesser extent Books-A-Million , surely there be room for a Blockbuster , along with a Movie Gallery or two .
the latter , at least , still have room to grow .
by focus on smaller , rural community -lrb- preferably the sort that consider dsl ` newfangled ' -rrb- they be walmart WalMart -- compete with Walmart 's awful in-store video rental by offer better selection and much lower price .
the movie business be change dramatically as the potential for online distribution grow , but like every other business it leave lot of room for traditional operator to operate at traditional -lrb- read : high -rrb- profit .
the aggressive bidding war for Hollywood Video , feature two of they competitor , a buyout shop , and one of the savviest raider around , be proof that some people still think these store be worth something .
and I be one of they .
full disclosure : for once , I be actually write about something I own : I have share of Movie Gallery , I have suggest it to friend , and I would be quite thrill if the stock go up .
I do not do ` sell target ' , but I would probably hold the stock if it run up anything less than 50 % from this level .
if I sell , I will post a notification one trading day beforehand .
because Lord know you care .
Byrne 2004-12-12T14:47:00 Conglomerates be a fascinating species : the standard definition be ' a company involve in multiple unrelated business ' but the more accurate definition would be ' a company that rely on financial pyrotechnics , balance sheet juggling , and adroit accounting to create the illusion of growth ' .
I love to write about they , but I would hate to own one , since most of they market value come from the market 's assumption that the company 's leader will somehow find a way to retroactively justify they overvaluation .
usually , it do not work , but when it do the result can be spectacularly entertaining .
for a while -lrb- see ling-temco-vought or Tyco for detail -rrb- .
the recent rumor about WalMart 's plan to buy out a shipping company have give rise to the fear that the company may go the conglomerate route .
they have many of the symptom of a late-stage conglomerate : a gigantic main business with slow growth , fear that competition will substantially reduce the profitability of they main business , a shareholder base that include many people who own only WalMart stock -lrb- thus provide another incentive for intracompany diversification -rrb- , and enough resource to pull it off on a grand scale .
I can understand the concern , but I do not see the motivation .
as a retailer of just about everything , WalMart can expand into some pretty broadly-defined area without go beyond either they core competency or some arena where they can cut cost .
after all , add some international shipping asset to they holding would be a natural extension of they enormously successful practice of buy the distribution network for they product .
they be come close to Smithfield Food 's very successful ` squeal to meal ' policy ; if these rumor be true , the result for shareholder will be a pretty positive one .
Byrne 2004-12-13T07:22:00 so Oracle and Peoplesoft , who spend the last 18 month insulting one another in every imaginable way , be finally tie the knot ?
the final price , $ 26.50 per share , beat all the previous bid by a huge margin -- of course , Oracle lowbal they earlier offer , and end up basically bidding against themselves and the optimism of other Peoplesoft shareholder for a year and a half .
it be be a pretty grueling fight -lrb- be it worth it ?
how much of Peoplesoft 's most valuable -- human -- resource will walk out the door the day they option vest ? -rrb-
make all the more so by the widely-held assumption that Larry Ellison be either bluffing or screw around .
so it be over .
I do not have Oracle/Peoplesoft 's spat to kick around anymore .
I will have to stick with condemn the merger as a totally unworkable deal between two side who absolutely hate each other .
and I will not dwell on the irony of a Oracle employee be drive out of Oracle , start he own company , and force Ellison to spend $ 10.3 billion to get he company -- but not he -- back -lrb- though it do rather delightfully remind I of Coca-Cola basically give away the bottle franchise and then spend billion to buy it back -rrb- .
Ellison be brilliant enough to make this merger work , but he be crazy enough to wreck even the soundest of deal .
we shall see .
Byrne 2004-12-15T21:28:00 back in the day -lrb- 2000-2003 or so -rrb- some of the hottest non-homebuilding stock be the gaming equipment manufacturer , who ride a wave of heavy reinvestment in casino to produce huge profit .
now , all that reinvestment have pay off , and , along with a good dose of consolidation , make the industry moderately hot again .
like every boom , whether merit or not , the big company have big move in the early stage , but it do not get attention or turn into a mania until we see a frenetic ipo or two .
you know where this be go : Las Vegas Sands kick off its first trading day with a 60 % gain after a last-minute increase in offering price to $ 29 a share , outside the $ 24 - $ 26 range bandy about after they drop they first $ 20 - $ 22 estimate .
but , well , the business be complicate and the business be tough .
Wynn Resorts , another owner of the lucrative Macau license that capture investor 's attention during the IPO , illustrate this well enough : Steve Wynn , the company 's founder , make a gigantic fortune when he bet he company 's future on Atlantic City .
when investor see he $ 160 million all-debt investment turn into a $ 440 million asset in just a few year -- he net worth take a similar , though even less gravitationally-bound arc , rise from $ 2 million to $ 75 million durign the same time -rrb- they all rush in .
needless to say , Wynn sell when everyone else buy , and he make it through the cannibalize near-collapse those casino face in the early 90 's .
so , applause and cheer all around to the casino raise such spectacular sum for you broad-scoped ambition .
and a premature apology to the newly-minted shareholder , who will doubtless see some eye-popping return in the right direction for a little while and then face a long road back to the reality that be a price around half the current one .
full disclosure , just for the hell of it : I be bearish about the Google IPO , too .
thank God I do not sell short
Byrne 2004-12-17T08:01:00 Gazprom , the main russian gas company , have be deny a $ 10 billion credit line due to the political situation in Russia .
the company intend to use the cash to pay a artificially low price for Yukos asset -lrb- hence that firm 's bankruptcy file a few day ago -- you know it be bad when you have to use US court to protect you own asset from appropriation by you home country -rrb- .
it be start to look like Putin 's goal be a sort of judicial nationalization -- take control of key asset through court , rather than executive , fiat .
but the market have catch on , and Russia may be deprive of the capital it need to grow .
do not expect any of the russian leadership to reverse course ; give the current trend there , they will just blame the West when they screwy plan screw they over .
Byrne 2004-12-19T15:09:00 so far , the Yukos auction have produce more question than answer , and so far the biggest of the former be just who make off with they prize asset .
auctioneer report a $ 9.3 billion win bid for Yuganskneftgaz -- the company 's main asset , worth two to three time that amount -- by a anonymous company locate in Tver .
well , sort of .
it turn out the anonymous company , BaikalFinansGroup , share a address with OOO Tverneftemash , which be recently buy by ZAO Gazpromgeocomservice , not to ever be confuse by the similarly-named Gazprom -lrb- which by the way have a similar logo -rrb- .
Gazprom , of course , be the gigantic , kremlin-supported gas company most observer assume would bid for the asset .
there be not many group in Russia who can afford a $ 9.3 billion bet , particularly when it be such a politically-weighted one .
Gazprom may have arrange some last-minute debt financing , or might have a outside partner , but I seriously doubt they be not in some way involve with the company that win the auction .
the logo :
Byrne 2004-12-20T15:37:00 Microscopic microcap Everlast , mainly a maker of boxing equipment , have soar over the last several day thanks to a licensing deal with Jacques Moret allow Moret to buy out they woman 's apparel license for $ 30 million , on top of a $ 12.5 million payment now .
in other word , a competitor have decide that one segment of the company 's business be potentially worth $ 42.5 million .
investor have prudently value the remain business -- the extremely well-known Everlast brand , the possible new reality tv show , and most of the company 's asset -- at a negative $ 16.5 million .
the company 's stock would have to rise more than 50 % from the current level to put a zero value on that business .
and , who know ?
it might .
Byrne 2005-01-05T19:01:00 Well , we do not , but we have something very much like it : a company hit and then rehitt low that would have be unthinkable even after they pull-back a year ago , accusation and proof of some less-than-kosher accounting , and , best of all , allegation of egregious self-dealing by insider .
a glance at the analyst opinion show that they have a lone bull cheerleading the stock , and plenty of bear hammer it .
that be evidence enough that it be underprice ; the market usually react to a downgrade by drop the stock a percent or two , but I can not help it -- I presume most of these downgrade arise from the classic `` well , what do you analyst think ? ''
`` he say it be a buy , '' `` well , what be it do this year ? ''
conversation .
nobody want to be catch recommend a loser , and unlike portfolio manager with a net Asset Value report card every trading day , analyst can essentially start fresh with each new opinion .
the best analyst get note , laud , and shower with cash .
the worst ?
well , they be still average in with the rest .
and anyway , I do not consider analyst anything but aggregator of publically-available information and echo-chamber for previously-determined opinion .
they can not really add much without stray into the realm of inside information , and what they do add be usually factored in the moment the report be release .
or , in a ideal world , it should be .
thankfully , ours be a less-than-ideal , though by no means dystopic , market , so we get plenty of opportunity to profit from the mistake of other .
as long as the bearish opinion of analyst weigh down on Krispy Kreme , I will be a bull .
Byrne 2005-01-20T16:41:00 eBay 's nauseating $ 19.72 decline -lrb- a loss of 19.14 % -rrb- have that end-of-an-era feel , like the Motorola crash describe in the money game or the nadir of the dot.com collapse profile in Dot.con .
there be news , of course -lrb- the only time there be no news whatsoever be when the entire market tank -rrb- , but miss estimate by a penny and show some ` red flag ' should not be a excuse for lop off twice as much as the market have the night before -lrb- after hour , eBay have lose a modest 10 % or so -rrb- .
watch a stock drop after hour , open lower , and close even lower than that make I wonder just who be selling : a runup usually build on a gradual crescendo of greater-fool theory -- everyone think they can always sell to someone dumber -- and end when the greatest fool yet get sick of the whole thing and bail .
muckdog ????
- ??
- ??
t21 :06:00 well , it be own heavily by everyone .
so the only thing folk can do be sell .
institution especially .
Byrne 2005-01-26T07:11:00 Merck post a 21 % decline in earnings thanks to the new post-vioxx announcement .
most of the profit decline be because Vioxx , represent about 11 % of sale , now represent a pretty severe legal headache : not only have they lose the revenue , but they have take a $ 600 million charge as a reserve against future Vioxx loss .
if that be a accurate number , investor should cheer up : Merck 's at fifteen time annualize earnings , twelve time forward earnings , and underappreciate by most of Wall Street .
full disclosure : I own Merck .
I buy the day of the Vioxx announcement .
and if I want to stay that contrarian , I will have to sell only when I get a inside tip that they have cure cancer , AIDS , heart disease , and death .
J. Nathan ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :49:00 if you read the quarterly more carefully , you will notice that the charge be not relate to liability from Vioxx but merely cost associate with legal defense , i.e. , just the cost of pay the lawyer in all of these case .
if that how much they be willing to pay for legal defense , imagine how much the actual liability be gon na be .
good blog , I find you via you instalanche .
Byrne ????
- ??
- ??
t22 :43:00 thanks for you compliment .
usually , I do not read the filings as carefully as I should -- I leave it up to alert reader , I guess .
anyway , I still think the Vioxx risk be overestimate -- if the tobacco industry can sell something with no health benefit for year , get sue , and 1 -rrb- keep the product on the shelf , 2 -rrb- remain in business , and 3 -rrb- do 2 -rrb- to the tune of several billion dollar per year in profit , we Merckers might be safe .
Byrne 2005-01-27T07:16:00 one of the rule of thumb that have guide my -lrb- limited -rrb- business career from the beginning be that China be never as lucrative as it look .
this assumption be base on about 150 year of economic history , include several boom in interest and investment in China .
they biggest problem : there be usually a 200-to-1 ratio of nearly starve Peasant Laborers to absurdly well-off government employee .
and now it be a iffier 100-to-1 , since there be also rich private sector employee and the labor force be not quite so expendable .
what they have be miss for year be the real driver behind any consumer economy : consumer .
specifically , they do not have a real middle class .
that be change in the last twenty year , as increase social mobility and a burst in foreign demand have finally make China a genuine , rather than theoretical , contender .
and they have even supply proof of they economic viability , announce that they have beat Japan for export to the US .
if only I would figure this out in early 2002 , when they stock market be by some stretch of the imagination cheap .
Tanger ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :10:00 I du n no if you want anything to do with they stock market .
for one , its perforance last year be pretty dismal .
more importantly , its a structural nuthouse .
unfortunately , minority shareholder rights be virtually non-existent , and exclude the dodgy financial statement list on the exchange , lot of time company be more interested in generate cash from a ipo then actually bother with shareholder value .
this Economist article -lrb- not sure if registration be require , sorry -rrb- http://www.economist.com/displaystory.cfm?story_id=1447832 finally , the Shanghai Composite on July , 1997 be trade at 1189.76 .
as of January 27 , 2005 it be sit at 1225.89 .
that be a annualize return of roughly .4 % .
the 5 year return be even worse -lrb- http://finance.yahoo.com/q/bc?s=^ssec&amp;t=5y -rrb- .
you have not miss much :-rrb-
Byrne 2005-02-01T07:48:00 Georgia 's insurance Commissioner , John Oxendine , claim that Marsh ` get off the hook ' -- and you can bet he be get a plan to fix that .
perhaps the worst feature of Spitzer 's Attila the hun-like sweep through the financial service industry be he habit of breed imitator , who will essentially use he settlement as a benchmark for create they own demand .
interestingly enough , this morning 's Wall Street Journal report that Marsh pay a higher fee than they need to -- that the $ 850 million number be agree upon at the last minute mainly so Marsh could pay out over a four-year period without admit guilt .
the rhetoric we be hear -- that Marsh may have cost customer billion of dollar -- do not match the reality that in a few case , they manipulate bid , but that the proven damages thus far involve only a few million dollar of business price 5 % or 10 % higher than it otherwise would have be .
Crazy .
full disclosure : I own share of Marsh , and I would not be particularly dissapoint if Eliot Spitzer 's career take a sudden nosedive thanks to , say , question about he business relationship to money manager and allege stock manipulator Jim Cramer .
nothing personal ; I just think he be the fifth horseman of the fiscal apocalypse , represent irresponsible invest with Wild Abandon .
Byrne 2005-02-04T13:22:00 it be always difficult to get use to a central fact of the modern economy : the best new technology will keep get better at a absolutely astounding rate .
usually , the improvement curve flatten pretty fast -- the usual auto industry/computer industry comparison work just fine -lrb- accord to the standard urban legend , Bill Gates note that `` if we would be make car instead of software , you would get 500 mile to the gallon , need a oil change every 250,000 mile , and be able to replace you car for $ 200 , '' to which a mythical GM executive reply `` ah , but if Microsoft make car , they would crash three time a day , too ! '' -rrb-
.
anyway , a few announcement during the last two day underscore the fact that the growth in memory and processing power for computer be far from over : Hewlett-Packard be develop a new replacement for the transistor , and a consortium of software company be back a new technology that would allow disc to hold up to a terabyte of information .
no idea where this will end up : it be not altogether rare that these announcement result in a very expensive project to develop something that , for whatever reason , be not worthwhile to consumer .
but it be important to remember that the status quo be never more than a snapshot -- invest as though it be permanent be a recipe for disaster .
Byrne 2005-02-04T13:37:00 accord to the usually reliable cnn/money , the `` Twin Deficits '' will continue to grow .
interesting terminology ... I believe they be refer to the budget deficit and ... the capital surplus ?
when analyze trade deficit , it be important to realize that the amount by which import exceed export be also equal to the net amount foreign investor have bet on the US .
so the trade deficit be due to a confluence of the pressure from US consumer -lrb- who control about 20 % of global gdp -rrb- and everybody else -lrb- exclude the non-consumption share of US GDP , that would amount to around 75 % of global gdp -rrb- .
which of those be -- probably -- go to be a more important number ?
even if we be consumer bent on gorge ourselves with import goods , the largest pressure on the deficit be that we be simply a better place for investment -- higher return on capital in develop country be more than mitigate by the higher political risk they face .
and what about that other deficit ?
it , of course , be the ominous sum that we fund without tax , but by borrow fund .
and about half of those borrowing end up with the major bank in Asia .
so , not to be a heretic , but 1 -rrb- we be issue they at relatively low interest rate , 2 -rrb- inflation be bind to pick up eventually , and so 3 -rrb- would not you rather have we deficit make up by economically nonsensical purchase by non-us investor , rather than raise tax in America ?
it be a question of who will pay for the same spending , and all else be equal I would be happy for asian central bank to pick up the tab .
the Twin deficit be a reality , but they be not exactly a terrifying one .
Byrne 2005-02-04T17:36:00 the market do not have a intelligent way to react to this news -lrb- except to send NASDAQ , which I have be cheerleading for a while , up 10.46 % in sympathy -rrb- , but the New York Stock Exchange may actually convert to a for-profit entity .
it be far too clubby now , and while this move would not get rid of nine-figure payday , it might ensure that they only happen when well-deserved .
not to name name or anything .
the exchange need this : it be ossify , the real owner -- holder of exchange seat -- have see they investment lose 40 % in a year -lrb- though they can still earn a income from it to offset the loss -rrb- , and the NASDAQ have undercut they traditional dominance among growth companies-turned-blue chip .
heck , they be down to just over half of they single-letter symbol !
it be a die organization , and this will be just the jolt it need for another couple decade of somnambulant staggering before be ultimately replace by far more efficient company .
full disclosure : `` far more efficient company , '' basically mean `` the NASDAQ , '' so take it with a gigantic grain of salt .
secondary disclosure : you can take the above at face value ; I do not own stock in a salt company .
muckdog ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :15:00 everything come with lot of grain of salt .
ever read the label on a soup can ?
it be amazing they can squeeze any liquid in there .
and if you crumble up cracker in there , that be even more salt .
well , I be not sure how I take the NYSE news .
I think I agree with you on the wreckless compensation thing .
I also think that Sears-Kmart should come up with a new name altogether .
those store be deadzone , and they need some buzz .
Change the name , paint the building , reorganize a little , and hire stripper for cashier .
I be not sure how that last idea get in there .
must be friday .
Byrne 2005-02-05T13:58:00 I really miss the day when a major international oil company could basically buy some tiny , ill-established foreign government to get at its natural resource .
we have progress a bit since then : now , the third world country all have they own state oil company , who be pick apart the carcass of once-private concern .
the Capital Spectator report on the latest : not only China , but India 's state oil company have decide to get into the yukos-dismemberment trade .
Byrne 2005-02-06T19:51:00 at first , I be pretty skeptical of Gmail -- a announcement of something new , cool , and free , from a quirky company , on April Fool 's day ?
turn out my initial attitude be not justified , of course , and Gmail have be a popular success .
just this weekend , Google give many user another fifty invitation , prompt some to speculate that it could be the start of Gmail 's final move out of beta .
they marketing be absolutely brilliant : simply through association with Google , and because of the invitation-only membership , they create a product with instant cachet -- something so in demand invitation go for $ 50 on eBay , and one enterprising site even offer a kidney for a invite .
and now ?
everyone who want a Gmail account have one , and yet people with invite have a almost pathological desire to give they away .
it be be nearly a year , the service be nearly ubiquitous , and somehow Google have keep we obsess with Gmail .
want a invite ?
I have get a dozen .
anonymous ????
- ??
- ??
t09 :27:00 this post have be remove by a blog administrator .
Byrne 2005-02-06T20:09:00 frenetic merger and acquisition activity do not mean much in the early day of a business -- it be just as likely that ridiculously overfunded startup be buy out they bankrupt competitor to create larger and less stable conglomerate as it be that forward-thinking visionary be cut off they competitor early .
but when a outsider buy into the business once it be establish itself as important , but before it be really get profitable , it be big news .
for now , it be just a rumor that ask Jeeves be buy blogline .
I would keep a eye on this -- if ask jeeve pop on the news , the easy money from the blogging trend be already go .
Michael ????
- ??
- ??
t10 :49:00 Well say !
like somebody comment on the Napsterization post , 0 + 0 = 0 .
:--rrb-
Byrne 2005-02-07T07:46:00 apparently Yuganskneftegaz , which be sell to a independent buyer who turn out to be a apparatus of the state -lrb- yes , the same state that 1 -rrb- force Yukos to do the auction , and 2 -rrb- run the auction , not that 3 -rrb- this be suspicious or anything -rrb- , and which be then be buy with foreign assistance , be not be buy with foreign assistance .
as of this morning , at least .
anyway , it look like they be deny chinese involvement to avoid a lawsuit , which be funny -- you would think they might know someone in the russian judiciary who could help they out .
Byrne 2005-02-08T20:33:00 Today 's performance say a lot about how the market view certain subject ; tomorrow 's will tell we even more .
today , ask Jeeves make they official announcement about acquire blogline .
and tonight , Cisco report solid earnings and weak sale .
the market 's modestly pessimistic reaction to the Bloglines news tell we that blogg be not see as a major profit source yet ; tomorrow 's trading will tell we whether the market be ready to accept that more established technology business be back on track as well .
after hour , Cisco 's be slam , but once they be expose to the rest of the trading population , the result might differ .
Michael ????
- ??
- ??
t09 :29:00 I do not think blogline will ever be a major source of profit or revenue .
blogg itself could become a pretty big consumer past time like watch tv , read a book , or play video game but I be not sure how blogline really benefit .
I would guess it most benefit the search engine , hit counter , and software builder .
with the explosion in available market commentary that happen through the internet it be not clear to I that by lower the cost of access blogging really add that much as much as it do to political commentary .
maybe seek alpha can become the new tscm but I do not think that will change the landscape as much as Howard Dean 's campaign do .
Byrne 2005-02-08T20:59:00 Stephen of IRA-CAM be experience Sitemeter envy over all those succesful political blog .
understandable !
after all , my biggest surge in hit come from a link from , well , a political blog .
however , I would rather not worry -- instead , I would like to think of we situation as akin to Instapundit , or Andrew Sullivan , or Daily Kos in , say , the summer of 2001 .
blog do not get huge until people see they update continuously on September 11th , and during the primary , and later on during the convention .
in politics , there be a definite four-year cycle , and any new medium can find its voice and carve out a audience in that time .
financial market be not so kind .
in short , we need a crash , and we need to blog it .
jult52 ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :50:00 you time will come .
Byrne ????
- ??
- ??
t17 :39:00 that sound downright sinister .
ira-cam ????
- ??
- ??
t22 :39:00 those poliblog hit come at a cost .
my half-hearted trolling drag back some hate to my site .
no wonder why they turn off the comment .
Byrne ????
- ??
- ??
t23 :24:00 I can understand that .
when you be blogg about stock , it be possible -- though a little difficult -- to say `` okay , you be right , I be wrong .
so I be go to sell what I have , and sell it short ! ''
and everyone can be reasonably happy .
but a political blog be usually build around a certain ideology , and no matter how compelling you be , you probably will not change anyone 's state opinion -lrb- instant counterpoint : check little green football now , and compare that to the September 11th archive -rrb- .
Byrne 2005-02-09T19:23:00 Mel Karmazin be push to add Sirius Satellite service to ipod -- a interesting idea , inasmuch as it seem to defeat the purpose of both .
the iPod 's the tiniest possible container for vast music library , and Sirius be a way to get at lot of content when say music library be unavailable .
on the other hand , Karmazin and Jobs be two of the smartest dealmaker around , so they might find a way to structure this or spin it to the benefit of everyone .
my main suspicion be that this be Karmazin hope to see the phrase `` Mel Karmazin , CEO -lsb- `` that be right , '' Mel say to himself , `` c-e-friggin - o ! '' -rsb-
of Sirius Satellite Radio ... '' ira-cam ????
- ??
- ??
t23 :58:00 Steve Jobs know a bad idea when he be pitch it , for exactly the reason you point out .
plus , a satellite receiver burn a lot of power , even if it could be make tiny .
Byrne ????
- ??
- ??
t12 :04:00 on the other hand , the guy have convince some very smart people to spend huge sum on stupid idea -- there be not much talk about it now , but back when he reputation be not so hot -lrb- late '80 -rrb- , lot of journalist talk about the `` Steve Jobs reality Distortion Field . ''
he could get people to ignore every single technical obstacle to a idea , and invest on the basis of something beautifully , but ridiculously , simple .
basically , he sell the future ; the ipod and the Mac Mini be just time he get lucky and the future catch up .
jontait ????
- ??
- ??
t17 :32:00 yea .
Yea .
Yea .
I be the president .
oh yea !
oh yea !
-lrb- you dumbass -rrb- jontait ????
- ??
- ??
t17 :42:00 commercial a video of a commercial in case nobody know what I `` m talk about =-rrb-
Byrne 2005-02-10T21:38:00 apparently Carly make a lot of journalistic enemy during she six hear at HP .
not only be the catalyst for she fall from grace a fortune article by Carol Loomis -lrb- who as far as I know be immortal -- she be be write for Fortune since 1954 -rrb- , but the anti-carly brigade be out in full force at Salon.com .
this be get a little harsh ; she might have mess up at HP -lrb- I refuse to call it by the new name , for now -rrb- , but she be not actively try to destroy a great company and wreck the shareholder .
it just , well , happen .
so , right , Carly be a bad manager , and she eventually get what she deserve , but she be not evil incarnate .
Byrne 2005-02-12T16:07:00 I have be keep a careful eye on the Blockbuster / Hollywood machination for a while -lrb- and well I should -- I have stock in one of the deal 's participant , Movie Gallery -rrb- , but even so I be surprised that Blockbuster 's latest gambit be to buy up Hollywood 's debt .
it be a admirable hedge -- if Movie Gallery win , it could improve Hollywood 's rating , and either way it offer Blockbuster some leverage .
and this be , as far as I know , the first time since the Allegheny deal that there be be a hostile takeover use debt .
Byrne 2005-02-12T17:17:00 Joseph Granville , the octogenarian technical analyst , have predict a precipitous decline in stock price this year .
I be a little bearish , myself -lrb- it always help -rrb- , but I have take the liberty of check some alternate source for Granville information , from which I get the follow incident : Granville 's behavior easily attract public attention .
he investment seminar be bizarre extravaganza , sometimes feature a trained chimpanzee who could play Granville 's theme song , `` the Bagholder 's Blues , '' on a piano .
he once show up at a investment seminar dress as Moses , wear a crown and carry tablet .
Granville make extravagant claim for he forecasting ability .
he say he could forecast earthquake and once claim to have predict six of the past seven major world quake .
he be quote by Time magazine as say , `` I do not think that I will ever make a serious mistake in the stock market for the rest of my life , '' and he predict that he would win the Nobel Prize in economics .
sound like a paragon of stability and common sense to I !
Byrne 2005-02-14T21:15:00 I be hope for another incredibly drawn-out story , full of antitrust drama , lurk potential bidder , and contentious confrontation between executive .
and then MCI just sort of accept a Verizon deal without really bother anybody .
clearly , they corporate culture have suffer -- 25 year ago , MCI be the brawl upstart in the telecom industry , constantly challenge AT&T 's right to exist , much less to monopolize the phone system .
and now , they be swallow by just another monolith .
I expect better -- meaner and tougher , sure , but better nonetheless .
Byrne 2005-02-15T18:58:00 G 's invest argue that Alan Greenspan be a George lucas-esque figure : in the Star Wars universe of George Lucas , he portray a benevolent dictatorship -lrb- or benevolent monarchy -rrb- as be superior to a democracy , with the democracy be the system rife with bureaucracy and bloat .
with Greenspan 's unspoken position as economic czar , that be what we have right now : a benevolent dictatorship of the Fed .
but one of the why dictatorship be so inferior to democracy be that democracy offer a stable , peaceful transfer of power .
will we have that at the Fed , when Greenspan leave indeed .
muckdog ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :19:00 can not remember where I see this , maybe at socialsecuritychoice.org .
anyways , the battle line for social security privatization be be identify as those who be for choice and ownership -lrb- Bush -rrb- , versus those who equate investing in the sp500 as play the slot machine -lrb- aarp , most Democrats , etc -rrb- .
the battle be now for the endorsement of Sir Alan Greenspan .
where will Dr. Greenshades come down in this debate ?
what will he say on privatization and the associate cost with implement such a system ?
I think that will have a pretty big impact on what happen next ... Byrne ????
- ??
- ??
t19 :25:00 Ooohhh ... I can not tell you how much I want to take side here , but I be try to keep my political opinion out of this -- I would really hate to alienate half my political audience in a single endorsement .
so I will just note that I do not see it as quite so black-and-white , and I think some of the compromise -lrb- like reduce tax for parent , on the grounds that child be the asset back Social Security -rrb- might be useful and -- we be deal with a win-or-lose , vote-or-not situation -- practical .
muckdog ????
- ??
- ??
t21 :16:00 yeah , I be interested in hear some obtuse Greenspanisms regard this topic ...
Byrne 2005-02-16T21:20:00 Northshore Management , the hedge fund firm accuse of steal million of dollar in client fund , be now face actual SEC action .
the amount in question : $ 37 million .
while it be not a major sum compare to the amount consider before -lrb- as high as $ 90 million -rrb- , it be good to see that the issue 's get resolve .
Though , of course , there be always the chance that these fund manager be stupid and shortsighted , not actually criminal ; apparently , the money steal be lend to or invest in company the manager control -- so they be guilty of front-running , at the least .
but they might have be use Northshore as a alternative source of capital : have invest all they could risk , it would only make sense to turn to other source .
what we will need to look for in the come week be 1 -rrb- what happen to the money once it be invest in these company -lrb- be they real company , or just avenue for steal fund ? -rrb-
and 2 -rrb- how much of this be disclose beforehand .
Byrne 2005-02-17T21:15:00 have the EU once again lose its mind ?
the one industry in which Europe incontrovertibly beat the US be they aviation industry , thanks mainly to the fact that they lawmaker have leave the operation of the industry up to the people who own it , and leave passenger 's rights in the hand of choosy passenger .
and now they be ready to ` fix ' that with a new package of ill-advised rule completely change the nature of airline .
before , a potential customer could choose between a cosy , near-certain ride from a expensive company or a hustle , uncomfortable , and absurdly cheap one from a smaller competitor .
and now ?
not a chance .
Byrne 2005-02-22T07:29:00 read this report on the U.S.-Russia Technology Symposium .
it be a great summary of the paradox of the russian economy : they have a huge untapped supply of valuable it labor , but they it export be only a tenth of they military export -lrb- and only a thirtieth of India 's it export -rrb- .
they develop lot of new technology , but nobody can tell who own what .
and , of course , they security law and property rights be even flimsier than China 's -- after the Putin administration mug Yukos on the grounds that it be too attractive a target to leave alone , they lose a lot of trust .
still , they have a unbelieveable amount of untapped potential .
Byrne 2005-02-22T19:19:00 I can think of only one good reason to be this enthusiastic about Martha Stewart live : the fact that so many investor be so clearly enthusiastic about Martha Stewart live .
let 's be clear : there be few worse time to buy a stock than when the namesake and guide force behind the company be in prison -lrb- whether or not she really should be -rrb- , advertising be down by nearly half , and the brand have be tarnish beyond recognition .
and yet the stock 's within a few point of a all-time high .
wonder never cease .
Byrne 2005-02-25T05:41:00 Well , I would , too .
on the other hand , the russian legal system be a bit less , well , legalistic -- they seem much more concerned about the chance that someone will harm the state than about actual matter of right and wrong .
so it be pretty significant that Mikhail Khodorkovsky be take the risk of maintain he innocence .
at this point , he have essentially no chance of recover anything , unless Russia see a change in political control and the US apply some pressure .
Byrne 2005-02-26T13:07:00 we all know by now that Choicepoint allow some highly respectable nigerian businessman of impeccable credentials to view hundred of thousand of customer record for entirely legitimate purpose -- they be pay customer , after all , and the customer be Always Right .
but even after that huge mistake -- or rather , because of it -- the company 's top executive begin dump share like mad .
what be scary be that since they start sell , the stock 's down about 5 % .
clearly , they be expect lot more damage .
these insider sale be certainly stupid , and probably criminal -lrb- though the legal proof may be hard to come by -rrb- but the solution be easy enough : they need to buy stock from the company itself , at some premium to the price at which they sell -- they will have the same stake as before , the shareholder would have get they money back -lrb- since the premium go to the company , which be own by the shareholder -rrb- , and there be no need to disrupt they business by take the matter to court .
or , if you want to do thing the SEC 's way , you could 1 -rrb- hire a bunch of lawyer with the company 's -lrb- shareholder ' -rrb- money , 2 -rrb- hire a legion of pr firm to explain away that frivolous spending , 3 -rrb- hire a new accountant to magically turn that spending into a investment amortizable over twenty year , and 4 -rrb- settle out-of-court by have the exec give the SEC some pittance -lrb- for which they will likely be compensate by the company -rrb- and a statement that `` we neither admit nor deny that we do what you claim , but we will never do it again . ''
thank God for the SEC -- they have practically make it a shareholder 's utopia , here .
Byrne 2005-02-26T14:44:00 Good plan ; cigarette impose pretty high penalty on state , inasmuch as the state be caretaker for plenty of people who be ill thanks to cigarette .
what be notable in this debate , however , be that accord to MSN Moneycentral , tobacco executive be attack the tax by note that `` while North Carolina 's excise tax be only 5 cent , the total tax give to North Carolina by smoker add up to more than 61 cent per pack . ''
okay , okay -- since the tobacco company pay lot of money to the state , that be technically accurate .
but the point of these tax be to align the price of a pack with the cost to society , and inasmuch as these penalty be not assess on a per-pack basis , they do not -- they be a lump-sum reflection of the tax these company ought to have pay before .
interestingly , the policy of make cigarette buyer pay to compensate society for the cost they impose be a politically palatable synthesis of the unpalatable notion of simply refuse treatment unless they pay full cost .
they be basically buy future medical care throughout they life , rather than eventually make the -lrb- healthy -rrb- remainder of the populace pay up .
in short : good plan .
Byrne 2005-02-28T22:11:00 you would think he be busy enough with Blockbuster and Hollywood , but Carl Icahn be once again go after Mylan lab .
I would love to call it a classic raid -- he be make a offer for the company , nominate he own board , claim management can accept one or the other or both , and hint that if they pay he enough , he would probably go away .
but the whole point of raiding be to outsmart a opponent , and that mean the strategy change constantly .
in this case , the most interesting twist be that he be short share of Mylan 's acquisition target , King Pharmaceuticals ; he be basically double down on the bet that they will not acquire .
not only that , but if Mylan buy he out , they would have less money to fund a purchase of King Pharmaceuticals .
either way , he be show a lot of confidence .
give he record , it be warrant .
John A 2004-12-24t10:07:00 for my holiday post , I offer a message of hope for the business world .
in 1994 , I be a graduate student in Boston .
I be ask to moderate a panel discussion on social entrepreneurship for a conference at Harvard Business School .
the conference be be hold by a new group call student for responsible business .
I expect to see a small gathering of idealistic , slightly naive MBA student .
what I find be a packed room of 200 intelligent , practical , driven idealist .
these student be determine to figure out how to use business as a driver for positive social change .
I leave that room with my eye open to the possibility present by these future business leader .
fast forward 10 year .
student for responsible business be now call net impact .
in 2004 , I have the opportunity to attend they conference host by the University of Texas McCombs Business School .
net impact have grow to include over 9,000 MBA student and alumnus .
approximately 900 people attend the 2004 conference .
the buzz word fly around the conference include social entrepreneurship , sustainable profitability , work with passion .
I meet student after student intent on harness the force of business and capitalism to improve the world .
these student understand that business be a powerful lever of change in this world .
recently business school have receive they share of criticism for turn out graduate who seem to have lose sight of they responsibility for ethical action .
I can tell you that I be see a powerful groundswell of change come from within business school .
it be not come from the faculty , or the alumnus , or the administration .
all these group continue to pay lipservice to topic of social responsibility while avoid any real innovation in the student experience .
the change be be demand by the student .
a little secret of business school be that MBA student have a immense amount of sway .
few choose to use it , but if they want they can fundamentally change they school .
right now student at business school be ask for more discussion of these topic in class , be initiate service project , form support group for social entrepreneur , invite speaker to campus to discuss sustainability , social investing , non-profit innovation , etc. .
net impact be often at the center of these effort .
these be not isolate event ... this be a revolution from within .
I have no doubt that in 10 year we will see the vast positive impact that these student be have in the world of business and society at large .
in 1776 Adam Smith speak of enlighten self-interest in the wealth of nation .
I often feel that we have conveniently forget he emphasis on enlighten which he define as be commit to be a good citizen and steward of society .
I be excited and hopeful that this new generation of business leader will bring this emphasis front and center .
if you be a MBA student and want a good reference for compare how MBA program integrate issue of sustainability and social responsibility into the student experience a good place to start be the Beyond Grey Pinstripes report produce by the Aspen Institute .
happy holiday to everyone !!
John A 2005-01-03T09:44:00 here be a entertaining little morsel from Business Week Online -lrb- no byline give -rrb- : but on the subject of succession , those two look like role model compare with insurance giant American International Group Inc. -lrb- AIG -rrb- , whose aging ceo have no plan to retire .
Maurice R. `` Hank '' Greenberg , who turn 80 in May , groom two son to be successor , but both have since leave AIG.Greenberg Sr. then create a office of the chairman in 2002 , which include co-coo Martin J. Sullivan and Donald P. Kanak .
both be consider possible successor , but the board will not know Greenberg 's preference until he departure , when it open a sealed letter .
perhaps this be a good time for a quick refresher ... .
the CEO work for the board ... end lesson .
I guess it be not as straight forward when you ceo be also chairman and one of the largest shareholder .
it would be tempting to get on my high horse right now about the need to separate the position of CEO and Chairman but to be honest with you I do not really believe that .
I know CEO/chair duality be a popular cause for corporate governance .
however there be little empirical evidence to suggest that separate these role affect firm performance in either a positive or negative way .
have a combined ceo/chairman do reduce the ability of the board to act as a check on management and this do mean that you need to be more critical in you assessment of the trustworthiness of the top management team .
this downside of have a combined CEO/chair be offset by -lrb- 1 -rrb- a reduction of coordination and communication cost at the top of the organization and -lrb- 2 -rrb- a increase in the negotiate position of the CEO when deal with supplier , potential merger partner , etc. # 2 could be particularly useful in a dynamic industry .
I do however look more carefully at the top management team of a company with a ceo/chair before invest .
it be important that you can get a sense of the trustworthiness of the CEO .
be there high turnover among senior manager ?
be there a record of regulatory problem ?
if the CEO be new , I also look at the performance of the CEO 's previous company .
I be most concerned if the fortune of the prior employer take a sudden turn for the worse after the CEO leave .
John A 2005-01-05T09:22:00 yesterday 's bad day for Krispy Kreme include some speculation that the new security lawsuit file against the company would be grant class action status .
if you be interested in get information about security class action for a company , you should check out the Stanford Law School 's Securities Class Action Clearinghouse .
this site have a very easy to use search function and it might be worth the time to run a quick check on company of interest to you as possible investment .
researcher affiliate with the clearinghouse just release a interesting report about security class action trend during 2004 .
the result highlight trend in type of filings -lrb- increase in product market related filings -rrb- , affect sector -lrb- big increase in energy & technology sector -rrb- , and overall number of filings -lrb- fairly steady -rrb- .
get the full report here or the press release here .
John A 2005-01-08T13:23:00 it be just about time for Fortune magazine to release its 2005 list of 100 best company to work for .
so now be a good time to ask a simple question : why should we care ?
make this list be certainly a source of pride .
it can also be helpful if you be look for a nice new job .
should anyone else pay attention to this list ?
well , thanks for ask because I just happen to have a answer for that question .
it turn out that investor can benefit by pay attention to this list as well .
in a study publish in the Journal of Business Finance & Accounting -lrb- 2003 , 30:771 -798 -rrb- , Greg Filbeck and Dianna Preece find that company on the Fortune list of 100 best company to work for outperform a match sample of firm along multiple measure of return .
this study be particularly relevant for investor because the author measure return after the list be announce .
to often these study use as a start point the moment before information become public .
the only way to benefit from such information be by hold the stock before the information become public .
this study indicate that the best company to work for information may still be useful even after the information become public .
it might also be useful to look at company that have consistently make the list in the previous few year and make a educate guess about they inclusion on this year 's list .
search the news archive and see if in the past year the company do anything that might have totally piss off they employee .
massive layoff , bitter union battle , stop offer free massage , etc. .
you might also want to be wary if the CEO or a bunch of other top executive have be replace .
that can often generate a period of uncertainty in a workforce .
John A 2005-01-09t19:47:00 I can not for the life of I figure out why anyone would invest in the airline industry .
please , someone tell I a group company face more serious problem than the legacy airline carrier -lrb- delta , US Airways , Continental , American , Northwestern , United -rrb- .
high fuel cost , insane pension obligation , and a highly pay , specialize workforce .
to this list of woe , we add a whole slew of competitor with much lower cost structure .
I admit I have already take advantage of the lower fare announce last week to book a business trip but these next few year be not go to be pretty for some of these company .
unfortunately , the pain be not limit to these company .
Pittsburgh , one of US Airway 's hub , build up its airport complete with a sprawling retail complex in the terminal .
now US Airways have reduce flight out of Pittsburgh by 28 % since January of 2004 and be in real danger of folding completely .
these shiny new airport be usually finance by long-term bond that still have to pay off ... but not by the airline .
this be a industry look for a sustainable strategy .
Southwest and JetBlue be the only major airline to earn a profit in 2004 but who know what will be happen in another five year .
so I will thankfully accept the low fare , bemoan the loss of food on flight , and watch these company parade in and out of bankruptcy .
BusinessWeek Online have some other commentary about the fare cut here and about US Airway 's woe here .
John A 2005-01-10T10:09:00 remember how you stress every year to get those # % ^ ^ $ % # tax form file on time ?
just imagine how Nortel feel .
early on Tuesday Nortel will be file its 2003 financial statement .
it also expect to restate 2001 and 2002 earnings .
none of this be really new information .
so the worst be behind they right ?
maybe .
late filing of audited financial statement and earn restatement both factor into my external Reporting organizational indicator .
as a rule , I be wary of company that do either of these thing until I be confident that they have change they standard business practice .
it may take a couple year , and several more financial filings -lrb- on time of course -rrb- , before I be persuade to take a second look at the company .
the bottom line be that I rely on SEC filings to assess company and I do not want to have any doubt about the veracity of the information contain in these document .
in Nortel 's defense , they have just go through the perfect storm in the telecommunications equipment sector .
the whole industry overbuilt and get blindside by the tech downturn .
this could be describe as a growth industry that go on a bender and be now try to recover from the hangover .
I have always feel that you learn a lot about someone when you see how they try to recover from a hangover -lrb- pause for brief college flashback -rrb- .
this be a great time to assess organizational effectiveness in the telecommunications equipment industry .
Nortel and Lucent attempt to hide the damage -lrb- what do you mean ?
I be not drunk ! -rrb-
and hope for a uptick in demand before they would have to come clean .
both company have be penalize for these action and have continue to restructure operation , sell asset , and layoff employee .
Cisco , on the other hand , be able to take one huge restructuring charge in 2001 and move forward .
they ability to do this and have it work -lrb- so far -rrb- indicate a very deep and impressive understanding of they organization .
especially when compare to its competitor , Cisco seem to be back in fight form due to it be ability to rapidly assess its organizational structure and reconfigure to meet the change market .
not bad for a company with a hangover !
John A 2005-02-03T10:00:00 The 2005 Business Blogging award be now open for voting .
this be a great place to find a number of interesting site .
I find a number of blog that I enjoy among the nomination .
I expect I will be add to my blogroll from this list .
little ole Monty 's Bluff be in the run for best New Business Blog .
I be glad to be in such good company .
so take a few seconds , head on over and cast you vote .
John A 2005-02-03T21:02:00 socially responsible investing .
corporate social responsibility .
just say these word seem to elicit some fairly simplistic knee-jerk reaction .
the reaction that I find most amusing be the know look of sympathy .
you know , the one that say `` Poor naive soul .
if only you understand economics , you would understand the folly of you way . ''
I do not intend to get into the stakeholder vs stockholder debate here or argue the relative merit of Atlas Shrugged .
those discussion , though interesting , avoid a simpler question .
do measure of corporate social responsibility contain valuable add information that help investor pick win investment ?
if all that you have read about this topic be a article in Business Week or the Wall Street Journal , you have probably hear the standard answer -- the evidence be mixed .
that be true but not very reveal would not you say ?
evidence be mixed mostly because -lrb- 1 -rrb- there be little agreement about how to measure social responsibility and -lrb- 2 -rrb- many current measure toss together a heap of information that have no business be lump together .
Social responsibility often include everything from treatment of employee to type of product produce .
there be not really any reason to believe that sell gun or tobacco have anything to do with force employee to work unpaid overtime .
yet both get lump together in the socially responsible invest discussion .
once you start to break apart social responsibility into its various component , you start to see the valuable information .
company that have poor employee relation tend to underperform , as do company that pollute at a higher rate than they industry peer .
on the other hand , company with numerous nlrb violation do not do worse than they peer and company that sell you typical `` sin '' product -lrb- tobacco , firearm , gambling -rrb- can be excellent investment .
lump all these thing together and of course you will get mixed result .
take separately , they provide valuable information about future firm performance .
I guess it be time to get beyond the image of the greedy capitalist vs. hippie tree hugger in this discussion .
though that would make a great Celebrity Death Match episode .
here be abstract from 16 significant study about socially responsible investing and a interesting essay on the subject .
John A 2005-02-04T11:55:00 yesterday be a tough day for the Seattle scene .
Amazon end the day down 14.6 % .
starbuck down 8.2 % .
I should disclose that I spend a few year live in Seattle and I have a soft spot in my heart for all thing Seattle .
as far as I could tell , many people in the Northwest spend the morning drink latte and they evening drink microbrew .
really not a bad lifestyle .
anyway , back on topic here .
market over reaction ?
hard to say .
both company have pricey stock and those valuation be base on optimistic expectation of future growth .
yesterday 's news lead many to question they growth assumption for these company .
today I want to talk a bit about Starbucks .
I think I have to start by acknowledge that the stock be still pricey even after its drop yesterday .
however , my organizational indicator analysis reveal a very low level of business risk .
this may partially justify a higher P/E ratio .
a couple week ago , I observe that Wal-Mart have offset strong and weak organizational indicator .
Starbucks , on the other hand , have uniformly strong organizational indicator .
Starbucks score as best in its industry on six of seven organizational indicator .
not surprising be its strong score in the employee relation and stakeholder action indicator .
its weakest score be in the external reporting indicator .
in the past , several observer have raise concern about aggressive accounting at Starbucks but my analysis do not indicate any systematic current issue .
the weak score be primarily the result of Starbucks current strategy of increase equity ownership of several foreign subsidiary .
this be a strategic shift that have short-term cost and add some uncertainty to the financial statement .
beyond the strong organizational indicator analysis , several additional factor favor Starbucks ability to continue to grow revenue .
1 .
Starbucks have little debt .
Starbucks be not currently finance its growth with debt .
consider its growth , this be amazing .
it also mean that Starbucks have a large amount of flexibility in how it finance future growth .
the company can assume much more debt without negatively affect its risk profile because ... 2 .
Starbucks have a healthy cashflow and current cash position .
this allow the company to grow without debt .
you could argue that Starbucks have too much cash and should do more to pass it on to shareholder .
this option be another way that Starbucks have retain its flexibility for the future .
3 .
Starbucks be the primary owner of its store and limit franchise .
while Starbucks do partner -lrb- airline , airport , Barnes & Noble -rrb- , most of its store be company own .
from a managerial perspective this greatly simplify cost structure , product change , and quality control .
take together all of these factor paint a picture of a company with a very strong future .
I can not say if these factor justify the current share price but I would say that they justify a higher P/E ratio than the industry norm .
risk be lower .
interesting aside : Starbucks be take over the location in my town that be recently abandon by Krispy Kreme .
disclosure : at the time of this write I do not own Starbucks stock ... but I be tempt and might consider a buy next week .
I be also tempt to go buy a latte after write this post .
tracy 2005-02-23t10:49:00 get job ?
and so , I have rejoin the world of the fully employ .
after Christmas , I get a call from the wife of one of my former boss -lrb- at my last full-time job -rrb- .
she be look for a Development Assistant at the retirement community where she work .
I start here 4 week ago .
WM be affiliate with , but not run or fully support by , the denomination I have be a part of all my life -lrb- umc -rrb- .
my grandmother -lrb- who be Baptist -rrb- live here for a few month before she die in 1995 , so I have many connection to the job .
we office be in one of the patio home , and I have my own lovely office with a window .
the job 's only about 12 mile from home , and I be go against the bulk of the traffic morning and afternoon .
it all seem perfect and yet ... oh , I be so thankful to be somewhere so nice where I might actually make a difference in people 's life , and I want to keep a open mind and hope it will last forever , but I have a feeling I will be restless within a year or so .
my boss be a very nice person , but conservative and resistant to technology , i.e. computer , internet , etc. .
we just get new computer a week and half ago , and she be gripe about xp -lrb- she old os be Windows 98 -- mine be 95 , so I be thrill with the new stuff -rrb- .
I tell she it will just take some get use to .
we will see .
I be not make the kind of salary I be hope to get , but it be the best salary I have get thus far .
when I be fulltime in radio I make a little less , but I get quite a few remote , which make up for not get a topnotch salary .
I be still do my tv announce and my weekend radio stuff , so that money will help .
I be go to start actively pursue more voice work in the next month or so , too .
my plan be to pay off my car early , and then work on the other debt .
I think it be time to go on and fill out the adoption application .
I be terrify of more debt , but mom and Dad will help with the money .
I be not sure they realize how expensive it all be .
I be think we might lean toward adopt from Guatemala , but we have still not hash it all out .
it be almost bad make some money now , because while most of I want to save as much as possible , the other , smaller part be scream loudly for stuff , stuff , stuff !!!
I have get a trial subscription to XM at work because of the Dell computer , and now I be lust to have it all of the time .
g get I a nice office stereo for my birthday and it do have a aux jack , so I could listen to it here .
he ask if I want a car stereo , and I say no , but I do .
there be so many thing I want .
a garage .
a dining room set .
New stuff for we house .
New clothes .
New everything .
but I want family more .
I think part of the draw of the other stuff be I could get it now .
but I would be pay for it later .
Money make the world go round and round and round til I be just dizzy .
