make this final port call for some of these men and women on board who have been there for ten months at sea .
chad myers joining me on the set .
typical perfect day in san diego waiting for these men and women to come home .
raining in l.a. , raining in san francisco but nice in san diego .
it 's a picture perfect place to live .
72 and sunny just about every day .
have you ever been down there ?
no , i have not .
it is quite stunning .
it is beautiful out there .
i just think about all the family members sitting at home , sitting on the dock looking at this boat coming in .
it 's just amazing .
they were not on vacation .
they were in danger .
your loved ones are in danger for ten months .
is he okay today ?
is she okay today ?
incredible sight to see these young men and women .
they are children .
they are 18 , 19 , 20 years old .
think about when i was doing when i was 18 , i was thinking about going to college .
these guys are running ships .
some of these , as you say , are children .
some of these had children while they were out at sea and this is the first time that -- first opportunity to get home and meet and hold them .
we 've seen the reunions for the past week or so .
it brings a lot of emotion .
it 's going to be har for me to hold back tears .
we 're watching from the sidelines .
you can just imagine what these people must be thinking and how antsy they must be .
got to think the last five minutes must feel like five days as they 've spent ten months on the water .
just about to come home .
sense the anticipation there beginning to build on those docks .
friend of mine in richmond , virginia , on the radio up there wrba .
his son was on one of the ships that escorted a carrier .
although this came home by itself from hawaii .
there are so many other ships out there that escort this ship as it goes out .
it 's just not one ship .
not just 5,000 people .
it is a battle group that goes out .
eight , nine , ten ships and a submarine .
while some of these ladies and gentlemen are going to be joining their families half of them are going to stay on board because this -- the `` lincoln '' is going to be docked in everett , washington .
that 's where the home base is .
it 's going to have to make a trip up the coast .
they wo n't get to see their loved ones until Tuesday or Wednesday .
i wonder who gets to get off first .
is there a drawing ?
was there a raffle ?
we 've got to deal with the person who 's going to be getting off here .
as you 've been watching throughout the morning , you 've been seeing that balloon .
just getting back from spending a tour in kuwait during the war .
betsy is going to be leaving us .
she is jumping ship .
she is going on her own .
she was one of the water skiers .
we have to let her go .
she is going to be leaving us .
she 'll be leave g -- we do wish you the best , betsy .
you know that .
it 's been a blast having you .
been a pain in the butt sometimes .
been big part of our group the entire time .
love you , betsy .
thank you , leon .
we 're going to say good-bye to betsy .
some of these ladies and gentlemen are going to be saying hello to their families .
standing on the side of the ship .
ca n't wait to get off there .
we 'll have that for you live .
these reunions .
that should be happening any moment now .
stay with us .
