okay .
question of the day .
here 's jack back with that .
thank you , bill .
there 's a new poll out this morning , abc news washington post poll that suggests that most americans would support u.s. military action against iran in order to keep the country from acquiring nuclear weapons .
according to the survey , 56 % said they would back military force block iran from developing nuclear weapons .
38 % said they 'd oppose it .
that was the question this morning .
would you support the use of military force to block iran from developing nuclear weapons ?
we have gotten hundred of responses beginning this one from edward in oklahoma .
i support the use of military force 100 % .
the problem is with all of the american forces bizy in iraq , afghanistan , korea , the balkans , the philippines and korea , can we be sure that france and russia are up to the job ?
not bad .
sally in daytona beach .
i think if we 're going to get this terror thing overwith , i think we need to clear the countries that house them .
it would be deadly to let iran let their hands on nuclear weapons employ i would support any action .
karen brights , i do n't support iran .
why do we , america , get to choose who has nukes and who does n't ?
is n't that the responsibility of the united nations ?
kay jones in waterford , connecticut , sure , let 's invade iran .
wior already over there , besides the biggest cost us to next to the loss of life is transporting our troops overseas .
iraq , iran .
it 's only one letter off , we could call it a typo .
a little cruel .
bill in montana .
nuclear weapons in iran , hope -- and buzz writes no one wants to see a war , but no one upons to see another September 11th even more .
especially a nuclear September 11th .
i would support military action in iran if it helps to stabilize that area of the world .
you see it going this way ?
you see it going this way ?
i do n't know .
i do n't know .
i think it 's fascinating if you put up a map and a dot for all of the places that you get an
