we now return to `` people in the news . ''
reporter : for martha stewart seems business is everything .
and everywhere .
stewart has found the road to fortune wherever she has traveled .
i think the temptation for any successful entrepreneur to go global .
reporter : her marketing vision also included kmart a company that recently emerged from bankruptcy .
okay , girls .
reporter : stewart is associated with kmart since 1987 and been very successful .
the goal had been to bring affordable style to the masse there 's a reason she was successful .
and the stuff that she 's created people like .
it 's good .
it 's useful .
it 's appealing .
it 's attractive and it 's cheap .
reporter : even as kmart struggled through financial difficulties , stewart stuck by the company .
it 's hard to run out on a partner that 's down .
that 's not our style .
reporter : now stewart is hoping people do n't run out on her .
the celebrity indicted on charges stemming from the sale of imclone stock .
stewart and former imclone ceo sam waksal shared a broker who now also faces charges of obstruction of justice and perjury .
her defense has been that she had a standing sell order at $ 60 and when the stock fell below 60 the broker supposed to , you know make the trade .
she 's been standing with that story .
the broker standing by that story .
the only reason it 's not holding is because there are other people that the merrill lynch that investigated and did n't find proof that was actually the case .
reporter : after stewart was charged by federal authorities Wednesday , her lawyers issued a statement in which they said , quote , martha stewart has done nothing wrong .
the accusation that martha stewart sold the imclone shares based on inside information proved to be false .
if she lied , then that is the obstruction of justice charge .
that 's the criminal side .
that 's where the prison time comes in .
reporter : for stewart , the fallout from the past year taken a tremendous toll .
martha stewart told me that the investigation itself had cost her about $ 400 million .
in decline in her stock , legal fees , and lost business opportunities .
reporter : ironic , considering the sale of the imclone stock resulted in a gain of less than $ 50,000 .
she 'll never fully recover .
you know , it 's almost like e.g. you get off the hook , but are you really off the hook because people always believe you were guilty .
and it 's hard to win back that sort of brand equity that she 's lost .
reporter : stewart is vowing to clear her name of the charges .
she is so focused and so determined that this investigation , while terribly upsetting , has not been something that 's stood in her way .
as only she would , she said , look , i do n't lose any sleep .
i still sleep my three or four hours a night .
reporter : he says stewart is still taken aback by the reaction to her legal troubles .
i think she 's been stunned at how much joy so many people have taken at her misfortune .
she does n't quite understand that the perfectionism that made her so famous also makes people say , oh , is n't it fun to see someone like that have a big , big problem ?
reporter : a perfectionism reflected in even the smallest details of stewart 's life .
martha does n't like to talk about how unpleasant things have been , but you can get signals of it in surprising ways .
when we sat down to lunch , she had put out these beautiful chop sticks which i commented orion .
she said , in china , the person with the thinnest chop sticks has the highest social status .
and of course , i had to get the thinnest chop sticks .
then she paused and said , that 's why people hate me .
reporter : love her or hate her , martha stewart has tied every aspect of her image to her business .
even her daily calendar turned into a marketing tool .
she said to me once that my life is `` the truman show '' and meant i 'm always on .
from the time i get up until i go to bed , the whole world is watching .
hello , everyone .
did you
