now back to `` people in the news . ''
good to be -LRB- bleep -RRB- king .
reporter : with the success of a new television show and last year 's oz-fest tour ready to kick off , things were looking great for ozzy osbourne .
he was sober .
he was rich and surrounded by a family who loved him but once again , ozzy 's high would hit a low .
that July , sharon osbourne , ozzy 's long time manager , wife and best friend , announced to the world that she 'd been diagnosed with colon cancer .
every fiber of ozzy was shaken .
he had to be sedated for a while .
reporter : sharon would have to undergo rounds of chemotherapy all summer .
ozzy took time off from oz-fest to tend to his wife .
ever the rock , sharon faced cancer head on .
when you go in there and people so much worse than me , and it 's like , how lucky am i have a great support system .
reporter : even with sharon trying to make things as easy as possible on her husband , he was still a mess .
his struggle with sobriety would be tested again .
ozzy 's not doing too good right now .
drinking ?
drinking and he 's very delicate .
he 's , like , dealing with it the best he can .
reporter : despite sharon 's illness , it 's business as usual for the family , though pushed back , filming commenced last fall on a second season of `` the osbournes . ''
some days when i 'm feeling bad , i say i ca n't do this anymore , and then you wake up and see the crew , and then , you know , you snap out of it .
reporter : the larger question loomed .
how could comedy come out of chemotherapy treatments ?
sharon is dealing with the diagnosis and illness but what 's interesting is humor is the same .
reporter : and the humor did remain the same .
the show came back with a vengeance last fall chronicling ozzy and sharon dealing with cancer and the kids hoping -- coping with new-found celebrity and one of the top rated shows , ratings for the second season slid .
i 'm not banking my whole life on bringing , you know , number one rated show .
having a nervous break down .
the bubble will burst .
reporter : this year , more ups and downs .
sharon announced in April that the cancer was in remission .
but just weeks after that announcement , son jack entered drug and alcohol rehabilitation in california .
his family said that his party life style caught up with him .
now , with a third season set to start , will ozzy 's role as a family man change the image in the annuls of heavy metal mad man ?
i think ozzy 's the guy that hit a head of a bat .
you know ?
crazy , drug taking , hard drinking , hard living rock n roller .
i think what the show does is also show that you might be those things , but also might be a pretty great dad , too .
i would n't be here now if it was n't for my wife .
i always loved my wife but sometimes i do n't like her and sometimes she does n't like me but we love each other .
i hate these people that go , we 've been married for 56 years and never had a bad word .
they must have been living in a different planet .
reporter : ozzy osbourne 's life filled with incredible highs crashing into devastating lows .
a manic life , grounded in family values .
ozzy 's not going to like me saying this , but he 's a very tender , gentle man .
this is a guy whose world revolves not so much around music as around his wife .
rock 'n roll !
part of the legacy of ozzy osbourne is a cautionary tale .
it 's also , you know , tale that includes family love , you know , and a lot of good things .
we have had it .
reporter : it 's a tale that continues to unfold .
no telling how long the osbourne phenomenon may last but the family 's loyal following will always be screaming for more .
stop screaming !
reporter : and so will ozzy .
sharon !
despite problems
