on we go in the meantime .
again , today , there were disturbing hints , and we underscore hints here , that coalition forces may soon face an attack using chemical weapons .
yesterday the story centered on intelligence regarding enemy intentions .
today the evidence is somewhat more tangible .
reporting for us , cnn 's david ensor .
reporter : the evidence is accumulating that iraq may be planning to use chemical weapons .
gas masks turning up in abandoned trenches .
in nasiriyah in a building marked as a hospital u.s. marines found weapons , atropine antidote kits , and that was not all .
they found over 3,000 chemical suits and gas masks as well as a number of iraqi military uniforms .
reporter : the findings are heightening concerns among coalition forces approaching baghdad since , as the iraqis should know , u.s. and british forces do not use chemical weapons .
u.s. officials say some intelligence indicates a red line may have been drawn around the capital with republican guard units ordered to use chemical weapons once u.s. and allied troops cross it .
there is also intelligence , officials say , suggesting republican guard units have been issued artillery shells containing chemical agents .
there has been intelligence scraps , who knows how accurate they are , chatter in the system , that suggests that the closer that coalition forces get to baghdad and tikrit the greater the likelihood and that some command and control arrangements have been put in place .
reporter : in baghdad deputy prime minister tariq aziz repeated his government 's stand -- it does not have any kind of weapons of mass destruction .
translator : when they started to talk about the weapons of mass destruction , we know and we always knew that that was fabrication and lines .
reporter : experts say saddam hussein 's forces will likely try to hold out in baghdad for as long as possible without using the weapons his government insists it does not have , hoping to build international pressure on the u.s. and britain to back down .
in that sense any use of chemical weapons would be counterproductive to saddam , because it would only galvanize international
