we 're coming up on 23 after the hour on what is shaping up to be a busy day here .
but a joyous day for 5,000 sailors and marines and friends and family in the san diego , california area because the giant u.s. carrier constellation is now returning home from the war in iraq .
frank buckley is in san diego and joins us now with the latest scenes from there and the live pictures .
hi , frank .
reporter : leon , yet another day of incredible home coming .
this time the `` uss constellation '' coming up .
they 're coming home for the last time to san diego .
it 's scheduled for decommissioning in August .
let me give you a sense of the excitement among families .
look at these folks who have not seen their family members for seven months as the constellation was over in the persian gulf .
let me take you up top to give you a larger view of how many folks are here at lima pier .
we are expecting some 15,000 people to greet the `` uss constellation '' as it comes home .
among the people that will be here to greet those folks , there are always the first-kissers , the people who win the first-kiss lottery and the new dads .
we will talk to one of the winners of the first kiss contest .
this is tammy , your husband is david .
we have little alisa here .
she is 4 years old told .
congratulations .
say hi .
reporter : you were telling me you spent 30 or $ 40 -- $ 30 or $ 40 to get here .
the question i asked you earlier , who gets the first kiss do you ?
she has agreed , i get to have it and she gets her daddy .
tell me what it feels like to have him almost home .
i feel complete .
i 'm whole again .
my better half is here .
reporter : that 's a wonderful thing to say .
when you heard they were finally about to leave harm 's way , can you give viewers a sense of what that was like for you personally to get that news ?
complete relief .
they were headed home .
reporter : and what has it been like knowing you get the first kiss , are you nervous ?
do you remember how to do it ?
to a point i 'm nervous but i just want him in my arms .
reporter : happy birthday .
say thank you .
thank you .
reporter : there are also 106 new dads , and among them is the dad of look at this beautiful boy who just woke up .
this is -- this is trebian .
mom is felicia , typhus is the new dad .
you were telling me this little beautiful boy was born two days after deployment .
after deployment .
he was born on November 4th .
and they deployed on November 2nd .
yes .
and you guys had tried or had hoped , prayed it would -- he would -- we were praying that he would get here on time , unfortunately he missed it , but through e-mails , pictures , he actually seen him grow , so it turned out to be okay .
it was just like he was there .
this is your second one he has missed .
yes , this is the second one he has missed .
and the last .
well we 'll have a chat with david or not david with typhus .
thank you very much .
we appreciate it .
you get a sense of the excitement here , the folks as the home comings are set to get under way here at lima pier in san diego .
leon ?
i 'm amazed .
i never have -- ceases to amaze me how kids can sleep anywhere .
that little kid is going to sleep with all that racket going off around you .
amazing .
any idea how many babies are out there , frank ?
how many babies ?
yes .
well , we know that -- i do n't know how
