so what are the clintons , ford and arnold schwarzenegger and the cast of `` friends '' have in common ?
they all love california .
that is certainly true and know aaron tonkin and according to to `` vanity fair , '' he 's at the heart of half a dozen investigations with fraud and angry investor lawsuits a-plenty .
joining us is brian burrow to explain it for us .
who this guy ?
garn tonkin ?
brian , can you hear me ?
i think heard someone say something .
can you hear me ?
you 're on the air .
one of the great moments of live television , is n't it ?
bliian , can you hear me ?
all right .
we 'll take a -- i can hear you now , anderson .
well , maybe not k. you hear many ?
just barely .
we 'll take a short break .
we 'll be right back .
become a member of ... ... at westin.com .
jooirx joining us , brian burrow .
who is aaron tonkin .
he is one of the biggest if not the biggest names in the world of hollywood fund-raisers .
a person who would put together celebrities with charities to raise a lot of money .
he was perhaps best known as kind of the focal point between bill and hillary clinton in the hollywood community .
what 's interesting , i mean , reading the article , basically a lot of the celebrities paid by him to attend charity functions .
yeah .
that 's one of the things that was most surprising to me was in learning that in one of the -- one major fund-raiser , for instance , honoring former president clinton , former president ford paid by mr. tonkin and sylvester stl loan was paid .
i thought it was for charity .
yeah .
i guess apparently not and a lot of the celebrities making money from this .
are they reporting it to the irs .
i guess at least one irs investigation about this .
right now , aaron tonkin factors in no fewer than seven different federal and state investigations .
one of them being an irs investigation into several million dollars worth of cash and gift that is he gave to many many hollywood celebrities .
now , his attorney gave us a statement i 'll put it on the screen .
it says -- is that possible ?
in fact , allege ledged one of the principle reasons he took so much fun from
