see that graphic ?
more than a million babies awaiting adoption in china today .
a california family is now bigger by one .
tonight they 're welcoming little abby kramer in the world was anything but simple .
her new mom and dad had to contend with international red tape , traveling thousands of miles to meet the new addition and cope with the sars crisis going on in china .
their story is remarkable .
thelma gutierrez telling the story of the kramers meeting kramer .
reporter : the kramers are taking a trip .
the trip of a lifetime .
i have passports and everything ready to pack .
reporter : mark and denise are going to china to pick up a baby girl .
her new parents will call her abby .
to me looks like my child is my child .
so i ca n't wait to have her .
reporter : after waiting nearly a year , things get a little complicated for the kramers .
sars wreaks havoc in china and foreign adoptions are put on hold .
the kramers are among the lucky ones .
their vias are approved .
do you have masks ?
yes .
actually , we did bring some masks .
reporter : still they have concerns .
they 're heading to quinn joe .
we understand that 's where the sars epidemic started from and we 're going right to the heart .
reporter : nothing will stop them .
what would you tell her about somehow she came to you and why she was given up ?
the people that gave birth to you are not necessarily your mom and dad .
they 're the ones that love you and care for you .
we are .
reporter : finally , it 's time to go .
with the 16-hour flight to look forward to -- it 's been a total rollercoaster .
reporter : -- the kramers are finally on their way .
with our video camera , they record their journey .
we just boarded the plane .
the flight attendants are wearing masks .
reporter : the kramers decide not to .
neither do the other 23 adoptive families on the long overseas trip .
we just got off , so our 16-hour flight is over .
reporter : the families begin with a tour .
an alligator .
my goodness .
reporter : the kramers must wait and travel to another town for abby .
on the next flight , passengers wear masks and their temperatures are taken for signs of sars .
sod is the big day .
we 're an hour and a half from getting our abigail .
reporter : finally the kramers meet abby .
hi , there .
i kind of leaned over and gave her a kiss on the forehead and she looked up and -- reporter : they know little about their little girl , found by the side of the road days after she was born .
she spent most of her life in an orphannage .
now abby has a new life in california with the kramers and their two kids .
i think i love her more every day , every time i look at her .
reporter : thelma gutierrez , cnn , los angeles .
well , it is our turn to meet the kramers back in the u.s. after their journey to china to bring home the newest and cutest perhaps , member of their family , in los angeles , the proud parents of 11 mnth abigail kramer .
thank you for being with us .
thank you for having us .
she is unbelievably adorable .
thanks .
tell us a little about this journey , that moment when you first saw her .
you traveled .
this is going on two years , you battled bureaucracy , traveling thousands of miles , facing disease .
what was that like ?
incredible .
you know , just to hold her in our arms , have her with us .
i mean , you count the moments .
and it was just anticipation all the way there .
so it was relief .
it was , you know , a dream come true .
she was -- she 's really a delight .
i mean , though it was a little pandemonium at the moment , she 's wonderful .
we love her .
and , mark , it was -- the first time you were holding her , it looked like she was crying a lot .
she seemed startled to see someone that looked so different .
yes , this was probably her first experience ever seeing a fair - skinned , bearded goatee , monster looking guy and she just freaked out the first time she saw me .
it took about a day and a half for her to warm up .
i had to hide in the hotel room .
she would find me in the room and start crying every time she saw me .
you had to hide in the hotel room ?
yeah , she 'd find me across the room and break into tears .
it was kind of that way with anyone that was blond , that was fair-skinned .
yeah .
when you first heard about sars , i mean , did you suddenly think , this may not happen ?
this could stop the whole thing sure .
we got calls that morning saying `` did you hear that they 're halting all travel ? ''
and we put in a call to the agency .
we were going .
and we put a lot of trust in our agency .
and they were great .
you know , unless we were absolutely stopped , we were going .
right .
after two years of working towards it , we were almost more afraid not to go than to go at the very end .
you know , mark , i hope this is n't too personal a question .
if it is , just simply tell me to shut up .
but when -- in the story i saw abby was abandoned on the side of the road , which is just -- it 's unthinkable .
you ca n't even imagine a parent doing that .
what do you think you 're going to tell her when she grows up about how she came to live with you ?
well , i get emotional every time i -- someone asks that .
but we 're going to give her the best love and affection we can and give her a strong self esteem and we 're going to teach her
