martha stewart is n't the only corporate figurehead in the news today .
the jury has handed down a $ 30 million , a grand rapids jury saying taco bell has to pay the true creators of the chihuahua mass cot .
two men claimed their idea originated , and proved i am in the wrong business .
taco ball is appealing .
joins me is tom rinks with his attorney john doza .
tom , you 've got to be happy with the settlement .
i know they 're going to appeal , but first et tell my how you calm up with the chihuahua character ?
joe and myself , he 's the partner , we were looking to design some licenses to put on some t-shirts , and at the time big dogs were big , and all the mean dogs , and no fear was a big hit , and we thought it was time for a bit of a change for the 18-24 crowd .
so we actually took the opposite of all that , and looked for the smallers , weakest , most timid animal , and tried to make him cool , tried to make him big .
and we knew if he gave him some spunk , everybody would root for him .
how did the taco bell folks run into you ?
they actually came to us at a licensing show .
we had been licensing to a bunch of different manufacturers , and in 1996 we were at a show in new york city where nick loada and universal studios , and taco bell walked up to us and said they were looking for a mass cot for their brand and this would be perfect .
that started a year relationship we had with them .
and it went on for a year , and you thought it did n't pan out and then you pick up a trade paper and read they 're going ahead with it ?
after we finalized all the commercials , and actually done the campaign for them , they hired a new ad agency , and telephone calls just started staggering off .
then they stopped coming , and we ahead imp the ads , and they were exactly what we had presented for over a year .
when you first heard that , or read that , did you just go ballistic ?
i mean , no offense , but it was you and one other guy who created this thing .
they 're a huge , huge corporation .
yeah , it was devastating , to say the least , but we really did n't know
