the search for a small plane that disappeared Sunday in massachusetts has a bittersweet ending .
three young boys , ages 2 , 5 and 10 survived and are in critical condition after spending in 18 hours in the cold .
the father , who was piloting the plane , also was rescued , but died late yesterday at the hospital .
the boys ' mother and two other brothers were killed .
officials say the pilot reported ice on the plane and planned to land in massachusetts when the plane left radar .
aviators described the scene as they approached it from above .
the aircraft was -- the cabin was intact completely .
the wings were off of it .
but it looked like a survivable crash .
initially the wreckage was spotted , and there was no person spotted .
but when we moved in closer and started to scan the area , then i saw the 2-year-old waving from next to the airplane .
the family had been heading to new hampshire from lakeland , florida when their plane went down .
if you are one of the many unemployed , expect company .
valerie morris joins us live from new york with that story .
valerie ?
hi , renay , sharon .
the pace of job cuts is quickening .
the survey by challenger gray and christmas says layoffs rose about 5 % in February .
that 's the second straight monthly increase .
the ax fell heavily on government and non-profit workers as many state and local governments face severe budget crunches .
the u.s. economy has lost more than 2 million jobs in the past two years .
airlines are getting flyers to destinations ontime more often .
the top ten air carriers arrived ontime more and canceled fewer flights in January than the month before .
a government report says the improvements are the result of changes in air traffic controls , and a dropoff in passengers .
despite operating under bankruptcy laws , united posted the best on time performance .
united also canceled the fewest flights .
still united lost $ 382 million in January .
and one other note of improvement .
airlines reported fewer complaints about lost , damaged or delayed luggage .
turning to wall street .
disappointing auto sales are denting the shares of the big three .
of course there are ongoing fears about terrorism and a war with iraq .
the dow has slipped 116 points .
the nasdaq is @ down three
