and the dixie chicks open their u.s. tour tomorrow night in greenville , south carolina .
the popular band has been criticized within country music circles for comments by lead singer natalie maines .
she said she was embarrassed to be from the same state as president bush .
she has since apologized for her remarks .
hmm .
those dixie chicks .
speaking of chicks -- call it puppy love .
call it maternal instinct , but , mostly it 's just out of the ordinary .
andrea ash from kezi in portland has this story of chicken that decided to take a new day job .
reporter : people have long struggled with the question , why did the chicken cross the road ?
2 - but all the scott family wants to know is , why did a chicken adopt their ten new puppies ?
every time we looked out our window it was like , what is she doing in there ?
it looks so out of place .
it 's just funny .
reporter : the puppies were born easter Sunday .
soon after , one of the families three chickens flew the coop and took up residence in the crate built especially for the puppies .
they goes in there and nuzzles with the puppies , or lays her eggs and sits there with the mother .
they 're just all happy , a little family in there .
reporter : at first the sight shock the scott family .
they tried to shoo the hen away but she kept coming back .
even putting up baby gates to try to keep the chicken out .
no match for her .
she simply flew over .
it also got past the puppies ' protective father .
i am going to sit with these punies .
reporter : the scotts ran it past their vet and the vet assured the em if a , as long as the hen left her crate to the do business , she was no harm to the pup .
the family says the chicken keeps the place clean .
so she 's free to stay .
a pretty good relationship with that chicken .
she does n't mind them crawling around underneath her .
reporter : when the mom comes in , the puppies know exactly where to go for milk -- sort of pt a little confusion .
the pips do n't exactly know the difference between fur and feathers yet .
after all , they 're only a week old .
eventually they all find the real mom .
no one know what 's will happen as the pups grow older and are able to open their eyes .
chances are , they 'll always have a fondness from one hen .
those puppies are in for a heck of a surprise when they do open their eyes .
are n't they ?
the puppies come home to roost !
that 's a good one .
that was a great story .
we 'll try to follow that in our next half hour .
we 'll hil you what the ftc is doing to crack down on internekz auction fraud .
that and the top stories in just two minutes .
i 'm mike galanos .
and i 'm rudi bakhtiar .
we leave you with sountds from willie nelson , the country legend is celebrating his 70th birthday .
this is cnn `` headline news tonight . ''
